AnaCredit Reporting Manual
Part I – General Methodology
AnaCredit Reporting Manual – Part I – General methodology
May 2019
About the second edition of the
AnaCredit Manual
The AnaCredit Reporting Manual (the “Manual”) has been updated. The previous
version dated back to November 2016.
Highlights of this edition
The Manual has been updated to acknowledge and incorporate the additional
explanations provided in the Q&As published on the ECB’s website between July
2017 and December 2018.
The updated Manual also incorporates a number of adjustments to address previous
inconsistencies. At the same time, the structure has been reorganised and
streamlined. Specifically, some explanatory paragraphs have been moved to
different parts of the Manual, and cross-references have been added with a view to
facilitating consistency and readability. Moreover, references to the implementing
technical standards (ITS) on supervisory reporting have been updated throughout
the Manual to keep them in line with the amendments to Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) No 680/2014 (the “amended ITS”).
Finally, the format and the language style have been aligned throughout the whole
text.
Marked changes
In order to help trace where amendments other than additional cross-references or
Marked changes: changes have
been annotated with revision marks
minor textual adjustments have been made throughout the text, changes are
indicated in the margin of the document, with a brief explanation. Furthermore,
where relevant, hyperlinks to the published Q&As are provided there. The Q&As,
although rendered redundant by the updated Manual, are still accessible on the ECB
website.
Amendments in Part I
•
13 Q&As have been integrated which considerably improves the understanding
of the reporting requirements.
•
In addition, in the update:
the areas of national discretion are complemented and respective
o
references to the AnaCredit Regulation are added;
the section on the Annexes is expanded with additional information
o
relevant for reporting agents;
new sections on the complementary Q&A process and the AnaCredit
o
validation checks are added;
the flow chart on the reporting agent’s obligations is redesigned;
o
the guidance regarding the reporting period is replaced with
o
explanations of extended quarter-end reporting;
several clarifications are expanded and new examples are added;
o
the format of all tables is updated;
o
the glossary is expanded with additional terms/acronyms.
o
Contents
About the second edition of the AnaCredit Manual 2
1 About the Manual 5
2 Reporting agents and observed agents 11
3 Counterparties in AnaCredit 33
4 Instruments covered in AnaCredit 47
5 Criteria triggering the reporting obligation 71
6 Concept of credit, data model and reportable datasets 92
7 Article 7 and reduced data requirements 143
8 Derogations and reduced reporting frequency for small reporting
agents 155
Glossary 160
References to legal acts 168
1 About the Manual
1.1 Introduction
This Manual presents detailed information and guidance concerning AnaCredit
Regulation1.
reporting requirements as set out in the AnaCredit
The Manual explains the methodology underpinning data collection and the data
model, and includes guidance on the preferred approach that may be taken in cases
where the respective ECB legal act leaves scope for different interpretations.
The Manual contains no additional requirements and has no binding legal status, as
it merely aims to provide guidance by clarifying and providing examples related to
the requirements and definitions previously laid down in the AnaCredit Regulation.
The AnaCredit Regulation is the sole legally binding act.
The requirements of AnaCredit establish a common granular credit dataset shared
among the Eurosystem members (referred to as the AnaCredit database) and
comprising input data of all euro area Member States and any other states
participating in AnaCredit on a voluntary basis.
With a view to creating a common database, it is of the utmost importance that
concepts, definitions and reporting practices are aligned across countries to ensure a
rigorous methodological background and accurate comparable international
information.
1.2 Who should read the Manual
The information in the Manual may be of interest to reporting agents, data compilers
and users of the AnaCredit database.
The Manual also provides essential information for national authorities in charge of
collecting the information as a part of a broader national reporting framework, with a
view to ensuring consistency between the AnaCredit requirements and any related
national extensions thereof.
1.3 Which reporting requirements are covered in this Manual
Only the common requirements as The Manual only covers the reporting requirements laid down in the AnaCredit
set out in the Regulation are
Regulation.
covered
No national extensions covered
1
Regulation (EU) 2016/867 of the European Central Bank of 18 May 2016 on the collection of
granular credit and credit risk data (ECB/2016/13) (OJ L 144, 1.6.2016, p. 44).
The Manual does not cover any other reporting requirements; this relates in
particular to any additional requirements that are part of a broader national reporting
framework and extend the reporting of credit and credit risk data beyond the scope
outlined in the AnaCredit Regulation. If relevant, any such additional requirements
will be determined and appropriately communicated by national central banks
(NCBs).
1.4 Scope of national implementations
National extensions With a view to ensuring efficient reporting and adequate interoperability with other
existing or new reporting frameworks, NCBs may collect the information to be
transmitted to the AnaCredit database as part of a broader national reporting
framework. Consequently, NCBs may extend the reporting of granular credit and
credit risk data beyond the scope outlined in the AnaCredit Regulation, for their own
statutory purposes, in line with relevant national law.
Similarly, NCBs decide on the reporting format and timeliness in which they receive
the data from reporting agents.
In no case does this Manual cover any national extensions of the common reporting
requirements, or the format of the reporting or the timeliness with which reporting
agents send data to their relevant NCBs.
Relevant information on national extensions and the timeliness or format of the
reporting is provided by the relevant NCBs.
Areas of national discretion In addition to national extensions, there are also requirements set out in the
AnaCredit Regulation that are left at NCBs’ discretion.
Generally, requirements that are left at NCBs’ discretion are those that may be rolled
out differently (or not rolled out at all) in different reporting Member States.
Any such requirements are presented and in principle explained in this Manual, i.e.
assuming the baseline scenario that reporting agents submit all data attributes listed
in Annex I of the AnaCredit Regulation. In other words, for the purpose of the
Manual, the requirements are explained as if NCBs had decided not to deviate from
the baseline scenario in which all the requirements are required in full. In practice,
however, not all of the data attributes may actually be required. The Manual does not
provide any information about the actual implementation of such requirements by
NCBs.
Revision mark: editorial changes Reporting agents and other stakeholders are invited to contact the relevant NCB for
information regarding the national implementation of AnaCredit.
Revision mark: the areas of The areas of national discretion as regards the common AnaCredit requirements are
national discretion are added to and
related to the NCBs choice to:
respective references to the
AnaCredit Regulation are added
•
exempt a resident reporting agent from reporting Template 1 – fully or partially –
regarding the reporting agent’s foreign branches under Article 6(3)(a) of the
AnaCredit Regulation;
•
exempt a resident foreign branch from reporting Template 2 – fully or partially –
regarding its own activity as creditor or servicer under Article 6(3)(b) of the
AnaCredit Regulation;
•
exempt reporting agents from reporting counterparty reference and credit data
to the relevant NCB, when such information can be obtained using reliable
alternative sources under Article 16(3) of the AnaCredit Regulation;
•
grant derogations to small reporting agents, provided that the total outstanding
amount of loans granted to derogated entities does not exceed 2% of the total
national outstanding amount of loans under Article 16(1) of the AnaCredit
Regulation;
•
allow small reporting agents to temporarily report on a quarterly basis, provided
that the total outstanding amount of loans of those entities reporting on a
quarterly basis does not exceed 4% of the total national outstanding amount of
loans under Article 16(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation;
•
allow reporting agents to report counterparty risk data on a quarterly basis
under point 9.6 of Annex I of the AnaCredit Regulation;
•
exempt reporting agents from reporting certain data attributes, as specified in
Annexes II and III of the AnaCredit Regulation, under Article 7 and Article 9(2)
thereof;
•
exempt reporting agents from reporting data of non-resident foreign branches
under Article 6(4) of the AnaCredit Regulation;
•
define the unique identifiers that are required for the proper identification of
resident counterparties under Article 9(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation;
•
specify the deadlines for primary reporting by reporting agents to the NCB
under Article 13(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation.
The Manual presents the baseline
Unless stated otherwise, the requirements of AnaCredit are discussed assuming the
requirements as laid down in the
AnaCredit Regulation assuming
baseline requirements whereby the relevant NCB does not apply any of the
that neither derogations nor
derogations and reporting agents are required to meet all requirements laid down in
additional requirements apply
the AnaCredit Regulation (and only those requirements).
Whether or not NCBs decide to deviate from the baseline requirements, and to what
extent, will be communicated by the relevant NCBs.
1.5 Structure of the Manual
The Manual is organised into the following parts:
Part I explains the general AnaCredit methodology and provides information about
the various steps involved in determining the reporting population and the credit
instruments subject to reporting and setting up the reporting, including a general
description of the underlying data model. It also explains the reduced data
requirements as stipulated by Article 7 of the AnaCredit Regulation and the
application of derogations for small reporting agents.
Part II describes all datasets and data attributes of AnaCredit data collection in detail
and provides specific reporting instructions.
Part III presents various case studies and in particular covers special scenarios that
require more in-depth explanations.
Finally, the Annexes provide additional information relevant for reporting agents such
as certain data validation rules.
1.5.1 Part I – general methodology, reporting principles and rules
Chapter 1 provides information about the content and intended use of this Manual.
Chapter 2 focuses on reporting agents, in particular the scope in terms of the
reporting population, and provides a detailed explanation of the entities subject to
reporting (reporting agents). The scope in terms of the reference population
(observed agents) is then discussed. The reporting obligations of reporting agents
are also described, including the meaning of reporting on an individual basis or when
there is a change in the population of reporting agents. An explanation of the
applicable accounting standard to be used by reporting agents is also provided.
Chapter 3 describes counterparties in the context of AnaCredit and provides a
definition both of counterparties directly involved in instruments and of counterparties
acting as protection providers. A specific section is dedicated to counterparties
affiliated with debtors and protection providers.
Chapter 4 describes the scope of AnaCredit data collection in terms of instruments
covered and focuses on specific issues related to eligible instruments, in particular
the activity of observed agents as creditors or servicers, instruments relevant for the
creditor, held or serviced instruments, types of counterparties involved and the types
of instrument that give rise to credit risk.
Chapter 5 explains the different criteria that trigger a reporting obligation with regard
to reporting reference dates and the reference period, eligible instruments and
debtors’ commitment amounts. The chapter also provides an explanation of when a
given instrument is reportable under AnaCredit.
Chapter 6 addresses questions related to the concept of credit and the underlying
data model. Specifically, credit is conceptually modelled by distinguishing the
instrument entity, the protection entity and the counterparty entity. The reportable
datasets are then defined on the basis of the conceptual model. Mutual relationships
between the reportable datasets are also discussed along with the different methods
of reporting data and the reporting frequencies.
Chapter 7 discusses the specific statistical reporting requirements related to
counterparty and credit data, as set out in Annexes II and III of the AnaCredit
Regulation.
Finally, Chapter 8 details the circumstances in which derogations and reduced
reporting frequency for small reporting agents can be applied.
1.5.2 Part II – datasets and data attributes
Part II specifies all the reportable datasets by focusing on the specific data attributes
for each reported dataset.
In particular, the reporting frequency is discussed for every dataset, and the
reporting qualification, definition, applicable values, general reporting instructions
and some examples of specific cases are provided for every data attribute.
1.5.3 Part III – case studies
Part III analyses specific use cases and examples of particular scenarios. A set of
case studies illustrates the issues and challenges encountered. The explanations of
how to tackle these issues in the context of AnaCredit reporting help both reporting
agents and data analysts to properly reflect the economic substance of the
information at hand.
Revision mark: editorial changes Part III covers reporting instructions for cases with a given central element, such as
securitisations, instruments under a multi-debtor/product structure (credit limit
structures), project finance loans, factoring transactions, reverse repurchase
agreements and syndicated loans and other multi-creditor instruments. It also
provides detailed examples of complete reports.
1.5.4 Annexes
Revision mark: this section is The annexes provide additional information relevant for reporting agents, such as
expanded to align with the content
lists of country-specific national identifiers and legal forms, as well as examples of
on the ECB’s website
complete data reports concerning stylised instruments. These can be accessed via
the ECB’s website.
•
List of legal forms
•
List of national identifiers
•
List of international organisations
•
Examples of complete reports
1.6 Q&As
Revision mark: this section is The Manual is complemented by further explanations provided via the ongoing Q&A
added to inform about the
process.
complementary Q&A process
Reporting agents and other stakeholders can submit questions to the relevant NCB
at any time. The NCB or, in the case of broader questions, the European System of
Central Banks (ESCB), subsequently prepares a response and the NCB concerned
communicates this back to the requester – adjusting the response in line with the
national reporting framework if applicable. A selection of these Q&As is published on
the ECB’s website on an ongoing basis.
1.7 AnaCredit validation checks
Revision mark: this section is The ECB performs validation checks to ensure that data reported to AnaCredit are
added to inform about the
complete and consistent, in accordance with the requirements. The main validation
AnaCredit validation checks
checks are published in a dedicated document accessible via the ECB’s website.
1.8 Other relevant information
Besides this Manual there is also additional AnaCredit documentation which
provides a consistent and comprehensive overview of the reporting requirements
from both a methodological and a technical point of view. In addition to the AnaCredit
Guideline2, Guideline3
Regulation and the AnaCredit the RIAD provides a description
of dataflow frameworks for the enhanced Register of Institutions and Affiliates
Database. Finally, in light of Section 1.4 above, available documentation at a
national level is also relevant.
The AnaCredit Guideline is a legally binding document addressed to NCBs’ that will
accompany the AnaCredit Regulation. It details NCBs’ obligations to report credit
and credit risk data and reference data to the ECB.
Other documents related to AnaCredit within the scope of the Single Data Dictionary
(BIRD)4
(SDD) and the Banks’ Integrated Reporting Dictionary also provide
information relevant to AnaCredit.
The Single Data Dictionary provides the technical specification for the dataset flows
between NCBs and the ECB. It only covers the dataflow between NCBs and the
ECB, and not the dataflow between reporting agents and NCBs. The latter will be
established by the respective NCBs, and reporting agents are advised to consult
their NCBs accordingly.
Revision mark: editorial changes The BIRD may be used as complementary information. The BIRD has been
are applied
designed to alleviate the reporting burden for the banks. The BIRD’s contents,
published on the BIRD website, comprise a precise description of the data which
should be extracted from the banks’ internal IT systems to derive reports demanded
by authorities. In addition to this, there will be clearly defined transformation rules to
be applied to the data extracted from the banks’ internal IT systems in order to
produce a specific final regulatory figure. The scope of the BIRD also covers the
common AnaCredit requirements.
2
Guideline (EU) 2017/2335 of the European Central Bank of 23 November 2017 on the
procedures for the collection of granular credit and credit risk data (ECB/2017/38) (OJ L 333,
15.12.2017, p. 66).
3
Guideline (EU) 2018/876 of the European Central Bank of 1 June 2018 on the Register of
Institutions and Affiliates Data (ECB/2018/16) (OJ L 154, 18.6.2018, p. 3).
4
The BIRD is accessible via the following link http://www.banks-integrated-reporting-dictionary.eu/
2 Reporting agents and observed agents
The first section of this chapter discusses the scope of reporting in terms of entities
subject to reporting, which form the reporting population. The second section
addresses the scope of reporting in terms of the reference population and provides a
detailed description of institutional units and observed agents. Finally, the third
section describes the reporting obligations of reporting agents, where the meaning of
reporting on an individual basis and the use of special reporting values are
explained.
2.1 General concepts
2.1.1 The concept of credit institutions
Pursuant to Article 1(18) of the AnaCredit Regulation, credit institution has the same
meaning as defined in Article 4(1)(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (hereinafter
CRR”)5.
referred to as “the
Revision mark: editorial changes Article 4(1)(1) of the CRR defines a credit institution as “an undertaking the business
are applied
of which is to take deposits or other repayable funds from the public and to grant
credits for its own account”. Exemptions laid down in other legal frameworks, such
IV”)6,
as in Directive 2013/36/EU (hereinafter referred to as “the CRD do not apply.
Subsidiaries of credit institutions which meet the above-mentioned definition of a
credit institution are credit institutions in their own right.
2.1.2 The concept of institutional units
As regards the organisation of AnaCredit reporting, the AnaCredit Regulation uses
the concept of an institutional unit.
Pursuant to Article 1(3) of the AnaCredit Regulation, “institutional unit” has the same
meaning as defined in paragraphs 2.12 and 2.13 of Annex A to Regulation (EU)
5
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on
prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation
(EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
6
Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access
to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and
investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and
2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
2010”)7
No 549/2013 (hereinafter referred to as “ESA – refer to Table 1 for the
definition of an institutional unit.
Table 1: Paragraph 2.12 of Annex A to Regulation (EU) No 549/2013
Definition: an institutional unit is an economic entity characterised by decision-making
autonomy in the exercise of its principal function. A resident unit is regarded as
constituting an institutional unit in the economic territory where it has its centre of
predominant economic interest if it has decision-making autonomy and either keeps a
complete set of accounts or is able to compile a complete set of accounts.
To have autonomy of decision in respect of its principal function, an entity must be:
•
entitled to own goods and assets in its own right; it will be able to exchange the
ownership of goods and assets in transactions with other institutional units;
•
able to take economic decisions and engage in economic activities for which it is
responsible and accountable at law;
•
able to incur liabilities on its own behalf, to take on other obligations or further
commitments and to enter into contracts; and
•
able to draw up a complete set of accounts, comprised of accounting records
covering all its transactions carried out during the accounting period, as well as a
balance sheet of assets and liabilities.
mark: this paragraph is Accordingly, an institutional unit may consist of a single branch office or several
Revision
enhanced in line with the definition
branch offices in different locations of the same country, where a branch office is any
of a branch office in the glossary
individual place of business which forms a legally dependent part of an institution
and which carries out directly all or some of the transactions inherent in the business
of the institution. There may only be one institutional unit in any given country. The
term institutional unit is a central concept of AnaCredit as pursuant to Article 1(10) of
the AnaCredit Regulation all counterparties required to be reported to AnaCredit are
defined as institutional units.
2.1.3 Institutional units of credit institutions
A credit institution consists of one or more institutional units. A distinction is made
between the domestic part of a credit institution and its foreign branches.
A credit institution always comprises the domestic part of a credit institution.
If a credit institution also conducts business in countries other than the country in
which it is established, the credit institution also comprises foreign branches.
7
Regulation (EU) No 549/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on
the European system of national and regional accounts in the European Union (OJ L 174,
26.6.2013, p. 1).
2.1.3.1 The domestic part of a credit institution
The domestic part is an institutional The headquarters and all branch offices of a credit institution which are located in the
unit comprising the headquarters
same country in which the credit institution is established are jointly referred to as the
and the domestic branch offices
domestic part of the credit institution.
Revision mark: the definition of The headquarters is the place of business that serves as the administrative centre of
headquarters is added in line with
an enterprise. Its tasks include overseeing and managing other units of the
the glossary
enterprise, undertaking strategic or organisational planning and decision-making,
exercising operational control and managing the day-to-day operations of the related
units.
The domestic part of a credit institution is one institutional unit which consists of the
headquarters and the domestic branch offices.
In the context of AnaCredit, the In the context of AnaCredit, the counterparty identifier of the domestic part of a credit
domestic part of a credit institution
institution uniquely identifies the head office undertaking of the credit institution.
and its head office undertaking use
the same counterparty identifier
The domestic part of a credit institution is the only institutional unit of the credit
institution in the country where the credit institution is established.
Revision mark: clarification is Please note that in the AnaCredit data model, a legal entity is indistinguishable from
added concerning “domestic part” in
its head office/domestic part as far as the identification of counterparties is
accordance with Q&A 2018/0044
concerned. Consequently, these terms are often used interchangeably in this regard
(please refer to the clarifications provided in Section 12.1 in Part II of the Manual).
Chart 1 presents an example in which a credit institution consists only of the
domestic part.
Chart 1: Institutional unit – a credit institution consisting only of the domestic part
The concept of the domestic part of a credit institution is illustrated using the example of
a credit institution with several branch offices in France. The credit institution is
established in France and has no branch offices outside France.
Headquarters
Branch office
Domestic part
A credit institution consists of the headquarters in France (i.e. the chief administrative
office) and several branch offices in different locations in France.
The headquarters together with all the branch offices form one institutional unit (i.e. the
domestic part), which coincides with the credit institution.
mark: this paragraph is Please note that the domestic part of a reporting credit institution reports to
Revision
added in line with Q&A 2018/0016
AnaCredit intracompany loans that it has provided to any of its foreign branches
(because they are different institutional units and, consequently, different
counterparties) (cf. Section 4.6.5.1). Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(i) of the AnaCredit Regulation
also stipulates that intracompany loans in which an observed agent acts only as
servicer are reported (cf. Section 4.6.5.2 for more information).
2.1.3.2 Foreign branches of credit institutions
Pursuant to Article 1(4) of the AnaCredit Regulation, a foreign branch is an
institutional unit which is a legally dependent part of a legal entity resident in a
different country to that where the legal entity is incorporated.
A foreign branch of a credit Accordingly, a foreign branch of a credit institution is an institutional unit of a credit
institution is located in a country
institution which is a legally dependent part of the credit institution and is located in a
other than the country in which the
credit institution is established
country other than the country in which the credit institution is established.
Foreign branches of credit institutions are not credit institutions in their own right.
A foreign branch of a credit institution is not a legal entity but a legally dependent
part of a legal entity.
The concept of a "single branch" Furthermore, a foreign branch is defined in accordance with the concept of a “single
branch” referred to in Article 2(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2533/98.
A foreign branch is one institutional Accordingly, a credit institution can have only one foreign branch in a given country.
unit
Please note that any number of branch offices (i.e. individual places of business as
defined under Article 4(1)(17) of the CRR) set up in the same country by a credit
institution with its headquarters in another country are regarded as a single foreign
branch.
Chart 2 presents two examples of the “single branch” concept.
Chart 2: The concept of a “single branch” foreign branch of a credit institution
The concept of a “single branch” is illustrated using the example of a credit institution
with branch offices in Germany.
A credit institution with its headquarters A credit institution with its headquarters
outside Germany maintains just one outside Germany maintains several
branch office in Germany. In the context branch offices in Germany. In the context
of AnaCredit, the branch office in of AnaCredit, these branch offices
Germany is a foreign branch of the credit together form a single foreign branch.
institution.
Headquarters
Headquarters
Branch office
Branch office
Foreign branch
Foreign branch
Irrespective of the number of branch offices, there can only be one foreign branch of
a credit institution in the same country.
Resident foreign branches (of credit institutions) that are resident in a reporting
Member State may be either (i) resident foreign branches of credit institutions that
are resident in a reporting Member State or (ii) resident foreign branches of credit
institutions that are not resident in a reporting Member State.
If a credit institution headquartered outside a given country conducts its business in
the country through both a branch office and a subsidiary, the subsidiary does not
belong to the foreign branch of the credit institution. In other words, a foreign branch
and a subsidiary of the same credit institution, both conducting banking business in
the same country, are two separate entities.
A foreign branch forms only one institutional unit. There can be no more than one
foreign branch of a credit institution in a given country.
Chart 3 presents an example of a credit institution which consists of the domestic
part and a foreign branch by means of which the credit institution conducts its
business in two different countries.
Chart 3: Institutional unit – a credit institution consisting of the domestic part and a
foreign branch
The concept of the domestic part (of a credit institution) versus a foreign branch is
illustrated using the example of a credit institution comprising headquarters located in
Italy and several branch offices in different locations in Italy and Austria.
Headquarters
Branch offices
Foreign branch
Domestic part
In this case, the credit institution consists of two institutional units:
•
the headquarters together with all the branch offices in Italy form one institutional
unit (the domestic part of the credit institution);
•
the branch offices in Austria form another institutional unit (a foreign branch) in
Austria.
mark: this paragraph is Intracompany loans granted by a foreign branch of a credit institution to other
Revision
added in line with Q&A 2018/0016
institutional units of the same credit institution (i.e. the domestic part or other foreign
branches) are reported to AnaCredit (cf. Section 4.6.5).
2.1.4 Subsidiaries of credit institutions
A subsidiary of a (parent) credit institution does not form an institutional unit of the
parent credit institution.
A subsidiary is a legal entity in its own right with its own institutional units.
2.2 Reporting Member States, reporting agents and
observed agents in AnaCredit
2.2.1 The distinction between the reporting population and the reference
population
AnaCredit distinguishes between the populations of reporting agents (the reporting
population) and observed agents (the reference population).
The rationale for distinguishing between reporting agents and observed agents is
that AnaCredit is designed to collect credit data with a view to obtaining a complete
picture of the credit exposures of reporting agents in the reporting Member States,
taking into account the area of economic activity of the reporting agent on the one
hand, and its credit exposure in a specific country on the other. Subsequently, by
linking observed agents with reporting agents, data are collected on loans granted
both by resident credit institutions, irrespective of whether they are provided directly
by the (domestic parts of the) credit institutions or indirectly via their foreign branches
(resident or non-resident in a reporting Member State), and by resident foreign
branches of non-resident credit institutions.
2.2.2 Reporting Member States
Revision mark: Section 2.2.2 is In line with Article 1(1) of the AnaCredit Regulation, a reporting Member State is:
added covering the definition of
“reporting Member State” as laid
•
a Member State of the European Union whose currency is the euro;
down in the AnaCredit Regulation
•
a Member State of the European Union whose currency is not the euro that
has joined AnaCredit on a voluntary basis.
A Member State whose currency is not the euro may decide to become a reporting
Member State by incorporating the provisions of the AnaCredit Regulation into its
national law or otherwise imposing relevant reporting requirements in accordance
with its national law. This may include, in particular, a Member State that participates
in the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) via close cooperation in accordance
with Article 7 of Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013.
2.2.3 Overseas territories affiliated with reporting Member States
Revision mark: Section 2.2.3 While the reporting status of Member States of the European Union is
concerning countries and territories
straightforward, particular considerations apply to countries and territories that have
affiliated with reporting Member
States is added in line with
a constitutional relationship with a reporting Member State.
Q&A 2018/0037
2.2.3.1 Affiliated countries and territories that are not part of reporting
Member States
Countries and territories of the Annex II to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) contains a
Treaty on the Functioning of the
list of overseas countries and territories to which the provisions of Part Four of the
European Union
TFEU apply. These countries are: Greenland, New Caledonia and Dependencies,
French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Wallis and Futuna
Islands, Mayotte, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Aruba, Netherlands Antilles (Bonaire,
Curaçao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten), Anguilla, Cayman Islands, Falkland
Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Montserrat, Pitcairn, Saint
Helena and Dependencies, British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory,
Turks and Caicos Islands, British Virgin Islands and Bermuda (hereinafter “countries
and territories of Annex II to the TFEU”).
Countries and territories of Annex II to the TFEU are not part of Member States. The
TFEU defines them as countries and territories that may enter into association with
the Union. Therefore, countries and territories of Annex II to the TFEU are not part of
reporting Member States.
With the exception of Saint Pierre Not being reporting Member States, the AnaCredit Regulation does not apply in
and Miquelon and Saint-
countries and territories of Annex II to the TFEU.
Barthélemy, AnaCredit does not
apply in countries and territories of
Annex II to the TFEU
However, Saint Pierre and Miquelon and Saint-Barthélemy, which are considered
part of France, are exceptions. In these two cases, the AnaCredit Regulation applies
and credit institutions or foreign branches that are resident in these two territories
report data to the Banque de France.
2.2.3.2 Affiliated countries and territories that are part of reporting Member
States
Countries and territories that are The following countries and territories are not listed in Annex II to the TFEU but have
considered part of the relevant
a specific constitutional relationship with a Member State and are therefore
reporting Member State are subject
to AnaCredit reporting
considered part of the relevant reporting Member State:
•
Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, Mayotte, la Réunion and Saint-
Martin with respect to France;
•
the Åland Islands with respect to Finland;
•
the Canary Islands with respect to Spain;
•
Heligoland and the territory of Büsingen with respect to Germany.
In these countries, the AnaCredit Regulation applies and credit institutions or foreign
branches resident there report data to the relevant NCB.
AnaCredit applies to credit The Principality of Monaco is an autonomous state and is not part of France.
institutions or foreign branches that
However, entities resident in Monaco are required to report data to the Banque de
are resident in the Principality of
Monaco
France pursuant to the Monetary Agreement between the European Union and the
Principality of Monaco of 29 November 2011. Hence, credit institutions or foreign
branches that are resident in the Principality of Monaco report data required under
AnaCredit to the Banque de France.
2.2.4 Reporting agents
Revision mark: the definition of a The AnaCredit Regulation stipulates that the AnaCredit reporting requirements are to
reporting Member State has been
be fulfilled by reporting agents resident in a reporting Member State.
moved up to Section 2.2.2
Pursuant to Article 3 of the AnaCredit Regulation, the following entities are subject to
the reporting requirements:
(a) credit institutions under Article 4(1)(1) of the CRR resident in a reporting
Member State;
(b) foreign branches of credit institutions provided that these foreign
branches are resident in a reporting Member State.
Credit institutions and foreign branches that are resident in a reporting Member State
are referred to as resident credit institutions and resident foreign branches,
respectively.
Resident credit institutions and resident foreign branches of credit institutions are
obliged to report, regardless of whether or not they are supervised under the CRD IV
(cf. Section 2.1.1).
Resident means resident in a Resident credit institutions and resident foreign branches of credit institutions that
reporting Member State
are subject to reporting are jointly referred to as reporting agents.
A reporting agent is resident in only one reporting Member State.
Resident foreign branches of credit institutions are reporting agents irrespective of
whether or not the credit institution of which the foreign branch is a legally dependent
part is resident in a reporting Member State.
A credit institution is a reporting Subsidiaries which are credit institutions resident in a reporting Member State are
agent only if the credit institution is
reporting agents and report data on their own activity as creditor or servicer and, if
resident in a reporting Member
State
applicable, on the activity of their foreign branches.
Pursuant to the AnaCredit Regulation, only reporting agents have an obligation to
report.
All reporting agents are jointly referred to as the reporting population.
2.2.5 Observed agents
Pursuant to Article 1(9) of the AnaCredit Regulation, an observed agent is an
institutional unit whose activity as creditor or servicer is reported by the reporting
agent. The observed agent is either:
•
the domestic part of the reporting agent, i.e. the institutional unit resident in the
same country as the reporting agent of which it forms part; or
•
a reporting agent’s foreign branch, resident in a reporting Member State; or
•
a reporting agent’s foreign branch, non-resident in a reporting Member State.
Revision mark: clarification is
Articles 4 and 6 of the AnaCredit Regulation stipulate that reporting agents report
added that acquired instruments
are also subject to AnaCredit
granular credit data relating to instruments held (granted or acquired) or serviced by
reporting
the reporting agent’s observed agents.
All observed agents are jointly referred to as the reference population.
A reporting agent may comprise An observed agent is always related to a reporting agent. Depending on the
observed agents located in different
reporting agent itself, there may be just one or several observed agents affiliated
countries
with the reporting agent. The number of observed agents that a reporting agent has
is exactly the same as the number of institutional units of the reporting agent. The
former number depends on:
(i) whether the reporting agent is a credit institution or a foreign branch of a
credit institution;
(ii) the number of foreign branches that the credit institution has.
Specifically, if the reporting agent is a (resident) foreign branch of a credit institution,
the foreign branch is also the (only) observed agent related to this reporting agent.
This relationship is a direct consequence of the fact that a foreign branch in a given
country forms only one institutional unit.
If the reporting agent is a (resident) credit institution, however, the determination of
observed agents is twofold.
1. If the credit institution comprises only the domestic part, then there is only
one observed agent related to this reporting agent (i.e. the domestic part of
the credit institution), which coincides with the credit institution. In this case
the observed agent is the institutional unit resident in the same country as
the reporting agent of which it forms part as referred to in point (a) of Article
1(9) of the AnaCredit Regulation.
2. If the credit institution also has a foreign branch, then the reporting agent
comprises two observed agents: the domestic part of the credit institution
and the foreign branch. Furthermore, if the credit institution has more than
one foreign branch then the number of observed agents related to the
reporting agent increases accordingly.
A resident foreign branch of a credit institution is:
•
in the country where the credit institution is located, an observed agent related
to the credit institution (where the credit institution is the reporting agent);
•
in the country where the foreign branch is located, both a reporting agent and
an observed agent in its own right.
There are no observed agents
Observed agents are always related to a reporting agent. A foreign branch of a credit
which are not affiliated with a
reporting agent
institution may thus be seen as two distinct observed agents depending on the
perspective of the reporting agent it is related to:
(i) as an observed agent of the credit institution, on condition that the credit
institution is resident in a reporting Member State, taking the perspective
of the NCB of the reporting Member State in which the credit institution is
located; in this case, the data of the observed agent (i.e. of the foreign
branch) are reported by the credit institution as the reporting agent to the
relevant NCB of the credit institution;
(ii) as an observed agent of the foreign branch itself, taking the perspective of
the NCB of the reporting Member State in which the foreign branch is
located; in this case the foreign branch appears in the dual role of
observed agent and reporting agent which reports the data of the foreign
branch to the NCB where the foreign branch is located.
Resident and non-resident Whereas reporting agents are necessarily resident in a reporting Member State, an
observed agents
observed agent may be either resident or (applies only in the case of foreign
branches) non-resident in a reporting Member State.
A foreign branch of a credit institution that is a reporting agent may also be a
reporting agent in its own right provided that the foreign branch is resident in a
reporting Member State.
If a resident credit institution (i.e. a reporting agent in country A) has, for instance,
two foreign branches (one in country B and the other in country C), then the credit
institution comprises in total three institutional units, all of which are observed agents
of the reporting agent:
•
the domestic part of the credit institution located in country A;
•
the foreign branch in country B;
•
the foreign branch in country C.
The existence of institutional units (of a credit institution) does not depend on
whether or not a credit institution is resident in a reporting Member State. Nor does it
depend on whether or not any foreign branch is resident in a reporting Member
State.
Chart 4 gives an example of a credit institution which consists of the domestic part
and some foreign branches and which has subsidiaries that form legal entities in
their own right.
Chart 4: Observed agent – credit institution with foreign branches and subsidiaries
The concept of the observed agent is illustrated using the example of a credit institution
established in France that has several foreign branches and subsidiaries both within
and outside France.
More specifically, the credit institution has a foreign branch in Italy, a subsidiary in Italy
which conducts banking business, and a foreign branch and subsidiary in country X,
which is not a reporting Member State.
Country X
(not a reporting Member State)
agent
observed
an
The domestic part
is
Subsidiary
Foreign branches
is
an
observed
agent
Observed agents
Taking the perspective of the credit institution in France, the credit institution is the
reporting agent that has the following three observed agents:
•
the domestic part of the credit institution located in France;
•
the foreign branch resident in Italy;
•
the foreign branch located in country X.
Neither the subsidiary in Italy nor the subsidiary in country X, nor the subsidiary in
France, are observed agents related to this reporting agent. However, if the subsidiary
in France or the subsidiary in Italy is a credit institution according to Article 1(18) of the
AnaCredit Regulation, then the respective subsidiary is a reporting agent in its own
right.
2.3 Reporting obligations of reporting agents
2.3.1 General principle
The reporting obligations of reporting agents pursuant to the AnaCredit Regulation
are without prejudice to any other reporting requirements in accordance with national
law or other reporting frameworks.
2.3.2 Actual reporting agents
The ECB does not provide a list of the credit institutions or foreign branches of credit
institutions that fall within the scope of AnaCredit.
Revision mark: a reference to the Nevertheless, the relevant NCBs inform reporting agents about the reporting
AnaCredit Regulation is removed
obligations before the first reporting reference date for which such agents report data
to AnaCredit.
2.3.3 Reporting on an individual basis
As set out in Article 6(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation, resident credit institutions
report data in relation to all their observed agents.
Resident foreign branches of credit institutions report on their own activity as creditor
or servicer.
Reporting on an individual basis means that loans exchanged between institutional
units of a legal entity (for example, between the domestic part and foreign branches)
are in principle subject to reporting.
Pursuant to Article 3(3), all reporting agents report data to their respective NCB,
which is uniquely determined by the country of residence of the reporting agent.
Specifically, where a resident credit institution has foreign branches, data concerning
all foreign branches of the credit institution are identified individually (separately) –
by the counterparty identifier of the institutional unit – and are reported by the
reporting agent (which is the credit institution resident in a reporting Member State).
The reporting agent reports the data to the relevant NCB of the Member State where
the credit institution is established.
The reporting population of an NCB Where a reporting agent has an observed agent in another reporting Member State
may also include foreign observed
(i.e. the observed agent is a foreign branch), data relating to that observed agent are
agents
also reported by the foreign branch, in which case the foreign branch acts as a
reporting agent in its own right and reports to the NCB of the Member State in which
the observed agent (i.e. the foreign branch) is resident.
Revision mark: this paragraph is Please note that pursuant to Article 6(3), the actual reporting obligation with regard
enhanced to clarify which observed
to observed agents that are foreign branches not resident in a reporting Member
agents are concerned
State may be decided by the relevant NCB. Whether this option is in fact followed
(and to what extent) in a given reporting Member State is not covered by this
Manual.
No obligation to report data of Data relating to subsidiaries of resident credit institutions (i.e. reporting agents) are
subsidiaries. Subsidiaries which are
not required to be reported by reporting agents (cf. Section 2.1.4). However, if a
credit institutions resident in a
reporting Member State are
subsidiary is a credit institution in accordance with Article 4(1)(1) of the CRR and
reporting agents in their own right
resident in a reporting Member State, the subsidiary is a reporting agent in its own
right and reports data in relation to all its observed agents.
Revision mark: the flow charts in Chart 5 presents the comprehensive reporting obligation of a reporting agent (a
Charts 5 and 6 are redesigned to
resident credit institution) in respect of its observed agents. In addition, Chart 6
improve their readability on the
page
presents the reporting obligations of a resident foreign branch of a credit institution in
respect of its observed agents. Although presented from slightly different
perspectives, the information in the two charts is fully consistent.
Chart 5: Reporting agent’s obligations – perspective of a resident credit institution
Depending on the particular situation, the reporting agent is the credit institution and/or
the resident foreign branch. A total of three cases arise:
1. The credit institution has no foreign branch – in this case the credit institution is
the reporting agent and reports on its own activity as creditor or servicer (i.e.
the credit institution is the only observed agent). The reporting agent reports
the data of the observed agent to the NCB in the country where the credit
institution is established.
2. The credit institution has a foreign branch resident in a reporting Member State
–in this case the following applies:
(a) The credit institution is a reporting agent and reports on the activity as
creditor or servicer of (i) the one observed agent being the domestic
part of the credit institution and (ii) the other observed agent being the
foreign branch of the credit institution; both sets of data are reported to
the NCB in the country where the credit institution is established.
(b) The resident foreign branch is also a reporting agent and reports on its
own activity as creditor or servicer (i.e. the foreign branch is the
observed agent). The reporting agent reports the data of the observed
agent to the NCB in the Member State where the foreign branch is
located.
3. The credit institution has a foreign branch which is not resident in a reporting
Member State – in this case the credit institution is a reporting agent and
reports on the activity as creditor or servicer of (i) the one observed agent
being the domestic part of the credit institution and (ii) the other observed
agent being the foreign branch of the credit institution; both sets of data are
reported to the NCB in the country where the credit institution is established.
The non-resident foreign branch is not a reporting agent in its own right.
If the reporting agent has both resident and non-resident foreign branches, the data for
the domestic part of the credit institution only need to be reported once (combination of
cases 2 and 3).
Please note that in line with Article 6(4) of the AnaCredit Regulation, the respective
NCB may decide not to collect any data for foreign branches located in countries which
are not a reporting Member State.
This is an overview of a reporting agent’s obligations to report on its observed agents’
activities as creditor or servicer, using the example of a credit institution established in a
reporting Member State.
The flow chart presents the comprehensive reporting obligation of the resident credit
institution and possibly of its foreign branches, depending on the composition of the
credit institution.
Credit institution
located in a
reporting Member State
Reporting agent Observed agent
(Member State A)
1
institutional unit
Does the credit the the relevant NCB of the
reports
to
No The credit institution being the credit credit institution
institution have a
the data of
institution (Member State A)
foreign branch?
2
Yes
the institutional unit the relevant NCB of the
reports
The credit institution being the domestic part to credit institution
the data of
of the credit institution (Member State A)
I s t h e f o r e ig n b r a n c h
the r e l e v a n t N C B o f t he
r e p o r ts
t h e in s t i t u t io n a l u n i t
l o c a t e d i n a r e p o r t i n g
The credit institution to c r e d i t i n s t i t u t i o n
Yes
th e d a t a o f be in g t h e f o r e ig n b r a n c h
M e m b e r S t a t e
( M e m b e r S t a t e A )
(Member State B)?
the relevant NCB of the
reports
the institutional unit
to
The foreign branch foreign branch
the data of being the foreign branch
(Member State B)
3
the institutional unit the relevant NCB of the
reports
to
The credit institution being the domestic part credit institution
the data of
of the credit institution (Member State A)
No
the relevant NCB of the
reports institutional unit
the
The credit institution to credit institution
the data of being the foreign branch
(Member State A)
Chart 6: Reporting agent’s obligations – the perspective of a resident foreign
branch of a credit institution
This is an overview of a reporting agent’s obligations to report on its observed agents’
activities as creditor or servicer, using the example of a foreign branch of a credit
institution resident in a reporting Member State. The flow chart presents the
comprehensive reporting obligation of the resident foreign branch and possibly of the
credit institution of which the foreign branch is a legally dependent part, depending on
whether or not the credit institution is resident in a reporting Member State.
Foreign branch (of a
credit institution)
Reporting agent Observed agent
resident in
Member State B
4
the institutional unit the relevant NCB of the
reports
The credit institution being the domestic part to credit institution
the data of
of the credit Institution (Member State A)
Is
t h e c re d it in s t it u t i o n the r e l e v a n t N C B of t he
reports institutional unit
the
Yes
l o c a t e d in a r e p o r t i n g The credit institution to c r e d i t i n s t it u ti o n
the data of being the foreign branch
Member State (Member State A)
(Member State A)?
the relevant NCB of the
reports
the institutional unit
The foreign branch to foreign branch
the data of being the foreign branch
(Member State B)
5
the relevant NCB of the
reports
the institutional unit
No to
The foreign branch foreign branch
the data of being the foreign branch
(Member State B)
The resident foreign branch is a reporting agent. In addition, if the credit institution of
which the foreign branch is a legally dependent part is also resident in a reporting
Member State, the credit institution is also a reporting agent. Two cases arise:
4. The credit institution of which the resident foreign branch is a legally dependent
part is resident in a reporting Member State – in this case the following applies:
a) The resident foreign branch is a reporting agent and reports on its own
activity as creditor or servicer (i.e. the resident foreign branch is also the
observed agent). The reporting agent reports the data of the observed
agent to the NCB in the Member State where the foreign branch is located.
b) The credit institution of which the resident foreign branch is a legally
dependent part is also a reporting agent and reports on the activity as
creditor or servicer of (i) the one observed agent being the domestic part
of the credit institution and (ii) the other observed agent being the foreign
branch; both sets of data are reported to the NCB in the country where the
credit institution is established.
5. The credit institution of which the resident foreign branch is a legally dependent
part is not resident in a reporting Member State – in this case the resident
foreign branch is the reporting agent and reports on its own activity as creditor
or servicer (i.e. the resident foreign branch is also the observed agent). The
reporting agent reports the data of the observed agent to the NCB in the
country where the foreign branch is located. The credit institution of which the
resident foreign branch is a legally dependent part is not a reporting agent.
Chart 7 illustrates the reporting obligation of a credit institution with foreign branches
and subsidiaries following the concepts of reporting and observed agents (see also
Chart 4 above).
Chart 7: Reporting obligations of a credit institution with foreign branches and
subsidiaries
The reporting agent’s obligations are presented using the example of a credit institution
established in one country with foreign branches and subsidiaries in other countries.
Specifically, the credit institution established in France has foreign branches in Italy and
country X (which is not a reporting Member State), and subsidiaries which conduct
banking business in Italy and country X (the subsidiaries are credit institutions according
to Article 1(18) of the AnaCredit Regulation).
Country X
(not a reporting Member State)
The domestic part
Subsidiary
Foreign branches
Observed agents
Reporting agent
From the perspective of the Banque de France (BdF), the credit institution is the
reporting agent and reports to the BdF the data relating to its observed agents. The
data are reported separately for each observed agent:
•
data for domestic part of the credit institution established in France;
•
data for the foreign branch resident in Italy;
•
data for the foreign branch located in country X.
With regard to point (3), please note that in line with Article 6(4) of the AnaCredit
Regulation, the BdF may decide not to collect any data for foreign branches located in
countries which are not a reporting Member State.
The credit institution does not report data relating to either of the two subsidiaries to the
BdF.
If we consider the credit institution’s situation from the perspective of the Italian national
central bank, the following applies:
•
The foreign branch in Italy is a reporting agent in Italy and reports data on its own
activity as creditor or servicer to the Banca d’Italia (BdI).
•
The foreign branch in Italy is not a reporting agent for the subsidiary in Italy.
•
The foreign branch in Italy is not a reporting agent for any entity outside Italy.
•
The subsidiary in Italy is a reporting agent in its own right in Italy and reports data
on its own activity as creditor or servicer to the BdI. In other words the subsidiary
itself – or the domestic part thereof together with the subsidiary’s foreign branches,
if it has any – is its observed agent).
•
The subsidiary in Italy is not a reporting agent for the foreign branch in Italy.
•
The subsidiary in Italy is not a reporting agent for any entity in country X.
Finally, since country X is not a reporting Member State, neither the subsidiary in
country X nor the foreign branch in country X is a reporting agent.
The credit institution’s reporting obligations are depicted in the flow chart below:
$
Ban$$que d$$e Fran$$ce
(the relevant NCB)
Credit institution in France
(reporting agent)
The foreign branch The domestic part The foreign branch
in Italy in France in country X
(observed agent) (observed agent) (observed agent)
As the subsidiaries in Italy and country X are not observed agents from the perspective
of the BdF, these are not subject to the reporting agent’s reporting obligations. Please
note that if the BdF decides to exercise the provision under Article 6(4) of the AnaCredit
Regulation, the reporting agent may be exempted from reporting data for the foreign
branch in country X (this option is represented by a dotted line).
2.3.4 Changes in the population of reporting agents
Revision mark: a qualification of A change in the population of reporting agents occurs whenever a credit institution or
“deposit-taking corporation” is
a foreign branch of a credit institution is established or ceases to exist (i.e. as the
added
result of a merger or takeover, the split of an existing credit institution, the
establishment of a brand new credit institution, a change in status from a
deposit-taking corporation other than a credit institution to a credit institution, or the
liquidation of a credit institution or foreign branch).
2.3.5 Reporting standards to be applied by reporting agents
NCBs will inform reporting agents Pursuant to Article 13(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation, NCBs decide when and how
about the timeliness of reporting
often they receive data from reporting agents in order to meet their reporting
deadlines to the ECB, and inform the reporting agents accordingly.
Specifically and according to Annex V of the AnaCredit Regulation, when fulfilling
their reporting obligations in the context of AnaCredit reporting, reporting agents
satisfy reporting standards that include but are not limited to the following:
(a) reporting to NCBs is timely and within the deadlines set by the relevant
NCB;
(b) statistical reports take their form and format from the technical reporting
requirements set by the relevant NCB;
(c) the technical specifications for data transmission to the relevant NCB are
followed.
NCBs also determine whether third parties may submit reports on behalf of reporting
agents.
2.3.6 Relevant accounting standards
Point 6.2 of Annex I, Template 2, of the AnaCredit Regulation stipulates that the
accounting data of an observed agent that are reported to AnaCredit comply with the
accounting standard used by the observed agent’s legal entity.
Specifically, the accounting standard relevant for any observed agent is the
accounting standard used by the credit institution of which the institutional unit (i.e.
the observed agent) is part. The accounting standard is relevant for AnaCredit
reporting in general and not only in relation to the data attributes in the accounting
dataset referred to in Annex I of the AnaCredit Regulation (cf. Section 6 for more
information regarding reportable datasets).
This means in particular that if the observed agent’s legal entity is subject to
Regulation (EU) 2015/534 (ECB/2015/13), the data are reported in accordance with
either International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or national generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) – depending on which standards are applied
by the legal entity to report its individual FINREP templates to its supervisor.
2.3.7 Counterparty identifiers to be used in relation to reporting and
observed agents
The AnaCredit Regulation requires that both the reporting agent which reports the
data and the observed agent whose activity as creditor or servicer is reported be
identifiable. For this reason, all the data reported, with the exception of the
counterparty reference data, include the identifier of the reporting agent and the
observed agent.
The identifiers are counterparty identifiers. In the primary reporting (i.e. between
reporting agents and the relevant NCB), the identifiers are uniquely assigned at the
level of the reporting agent. In the secondary reporting (i.e. between NCBs and the
ECB), the identifiers are assigned by the relevant NCB, ensuring that they are
uniquely assigned at national level.
Whether the same identifiers are used in the primary and secondary reporting
depends on national arrangements.
Revision mark: the former Section
2.3.8 dealing with special reporting
values has been moved to
Section 2.2 in Part II of the Manual
2.3.8 The first reporting reference date
Revision mark: this paragraph has As stated in Article 2(1) of the AnaCredit Regulation, 30 September 2018 is the first
been moved up from former Section
reporting reference date.
5.2.1
3 Counterparties in AnaCredit
This chapter describes counterparties in the context of AnaCredit and provides
definitions of both counterparties directly involved in instruments and counterparties
acting as protection providers. Furthermore, a specific section is dedicated to
counterparties affiliated with debtors and protection providers. More detailed
guidance on counterparties is provided in Chapters 6 and 12 of Part II of the Manual,
which deal specifically with the counterparty reference data and the counterparty-
instrument data (with data on the counterparty role).
3.1 Identification of counterparties relevant in AnaCredit
In the context of AnaCredit, counterparty means an institutional unit that is a party to
an instrument or to a protection item, or has an affiliation with such a party.
All counterparties taking any of the The AnaCredit Regulation stipulates that all counterparties (that are not natural
roles in relation to instruments
persons) which take any of the following roles are relevant counterparties and are
should be registered in the
counterparty reference data, unless
registered in the counterparty reference data:
a counterparty is a natural person
•
the debtor of the instrument;
•
the creditor of the instrument;
•
the servicer of the instrument;
•
the originator of the instrument, if the instrument is subject to securitisation;
•
the protection provider that provides protection (if any) to the instrument;
•
the head office undertaking of (a foreign branch that is) a debtor of the
instrument or a protection provider that provides protection to the
instrument;
•
the immediate parent undertaking of any debtor of the instrument, or of any
protection provider that provides protection to the instrument;
•
the ultimate parent undertaking of any debtor of the instrument, or of any
protection provider that provides protection to the instrument.
Revision mark: editorial changes These and only these counterparties are recognised in AnaCredit.
are applied
Counterparties in AnaCredit are It is underlined that the concept of a counterparty is based on the concept of the
institutional units and legal entities
institutional unit, which is discussed in Section 2.1.2 in relation to reporting and
are therefore identified at the level
of their institutional units, i.e. their
observed agents and further in Section 3.4 in relation to counterparties other than
domestic parts and foreign
reporting and observed agents. Therefore, with regard to any legal entity AnaCredit
branches (if any)
distinguishes between a counterparty which is the domestic part of the legal entity
and counterparties which are foreign branches of the legal entity. Consequently,
different institutional units of the same legal entity are identified with distinct
counterparty identifiers because they are different counterparties in the context of
AnaCredit. This is discussed in more detail in Chapter 12 of Part II of the Manual,
which deals specifically with the counterparty reference data.
When identifying counterparties in AnaCredit, the following steps essentially need to
be considered:
(a) if reporting an instrument to AnaCredit as at a given reporting reference
date, all counterparties are identified that take any of the following roles:
1. debtor of the instrument;
2. creditor of the instrument;
3. servicer of the instrument;
4. originator, if the instrument is subject to securitisation;
(b) if there is a protection item securing the instrument, the protection
provider of the protection item is identified;
(c) once all counterparties taking the role of debtor or the role of protection
provider have been identified, the following information is required:
counterparty,8
1. the head office undertaking of the
2. the immediate parent undertaking of the counterparty (if any);
3. the ultimate parent undertaking of the counterparty (if any);
(d) ultimately, all counterparties identified along steps a), b) and c) are
registered in the counterparty reference data as of the given reporting
reference date;
(e) however, the requirement in point 5(d) above is waived for all
counterparties which are natural persons, because data on natural
persons are not collected in AnaCredit.
8
Please note that the head office undertaking identifier should always be registered if the
counterparty is a foreign branch (and is recommended to be registered for a special fund – see
also Section 12.1.1 of Part II of the Manual, which deals specifically with the counterparty
reference data). If the counterparty is the domestic part of a legal entity, the head office
undertaking identifier coincides with the counterparty identifier of the domestic part. Many data
attributes in the counterparty reference dataset refer to the legal entity (e.g. status of legal
proceedings, enterprise size, etc.) and no proper value is thus reported in the counterparty
reference dataset of the institutional unit which is a foreign branch/special fund. As the data
should be available for the legal entity, it is necessary that the record of the foreign branch is
linked with the record of the legal entity via the head office undertaking identifier and a record of
counterparty reference data should be reported for the head office undertaking/the domestic part
of the legal entity.
The head office undertaking is also The counterparties in AnaCredit are not only domestic parts and foreign branches of
be identified for special funds that
a legal entity but also unincorporated investment funds (“special funds”). Since
are debtors in AnaCredit
special funds and their managing financial corporations are deemed to have a
Revision mark: clarification is
relationship analogous (but not identical) to that of the foreign branches and
added following Q&A 2018/0025
that the treatment of special funds
domestic part of a legal entity, special funds are identified in a similar manner to
is analogous, but not identical, to
foreign branches (cf. Section 12.2.2 in Part II of the Manual).
the treatment of foreign branches
While a counterparty may take one or more of these roles in relation to one or more
instruments as at a given reporting reference date, each counterparty is only
date.9
registered in the counterparty reference data once as at that
In accordance with these steps, the counterparties are broadly grouped into three
categories:
A counterparty is directly related to First, considering an instrument that is required to be reported to AnaCredit,
an instrument if the counterparty is
counterparties that are directly related to the instrument are identified. These are:
a debtor, creditor, servicer or
originator of the instrument
(1)the debtor that is obliged to pay to the creditor an amount of money that arises
under the instrument; (2) symmetrically, the creditor that has the right to receive a
payment that the debtor is obliged to make under the instrument; (3) the servicer that
is responsible for the administrative and financial management of the instrument;
and (4) the originator that is the transferor of the instrument, and/or bears the credit
risk of the instrument, to a securitisation structure, if the instrument is subject to
securitisation. There may be more than one of the counterparties thus identified in
relation to a single instrument, and all these counterparties which are not natural
persons are identified and recorded in the counterparty-instrument dataset along
with the roles they take in relation to the instrument.
As regards protection items Second, counterparties related to any protection items that secure the instrument
provided by several protection
(i.e. the payments under the instrument that the debtor is obliged to make) are
providers (for example, joint
guarantors), credit institutions
identified. Specifically, (5) the protection provider is the counterparty that grants
identify all protection providers but
protection against a contractually agreed negative credit event and that bears the
report only one of them in the
protection received dataset
credit risk of the negative credit event. All protection providers that are not natural
persons are identified and recorded in the protection received dataset. Generally
there may be more than one protection provider in relation to any protection item.
However, the requirements of AnaCredit are currently such that only one protection
protection.10
provider is reported in relation to
Finally, there are counterparties that are not directly related to the instrument or any
protection item securing the instrument but are affiliated with the debtors or the
protection providers identified in relation to the instrument. These are: (6) the head
office undertaking, which represents the legal entity of which the foreign branch (or
9
The counterparty may, however, be registered more than once in the counterparty-instrument or
protection received dataset.
10
For instance, it has been recognised that in the case of financial guarantees provided by several
(joint) guarantors, the AnaCredit data model does not allow all the protection providers to be
recorded. Consequently, the data model is due to be enhanced in the future. Reporting agents
are nevertheless advised to identify all protection providers before the enhancement takes place,
although only one of them can effectively be received in AnaCredit at present. Please refer to
Section 6.2.2.4.4 for details regarding how such cases are reported to AnaCredit.
the special fund) is a legally dependent part; (7) the immediate parent undertaking,
which is required for all debtors and protection providers and is the counterparty
which, following the concept of a parent undertaking as defined in Article 4(1)(15) of
the CRR, owns or controls the debtor or protection provider and of which the debtor
or protection provider is a subsidiary; and (8) the ultimate parent undertaking, which
is required for all debtors and protection providers and is the counterparty which,
following the concept of a parent undertaking as defined in Article 4(1)(15) of the
CRR, is the ultimate parent undertaking of the debtor or protection provider and has
no parent undertaking. All such counterparties which are not natural persons are
identified and recorded in the counterparty reference data.
Each counterparty registered in the For all counterparties identified and recorded in the respective datasets, the
respective datasets should be
counterparty reference data contain a single data record describing the counterparty.
uniquely registered in the
counterparty reference data
In other words, the counterparty reference data contain information about all relevant
counterparties related to all the instruments and all the protection items (if any)
reported to AnaCredit, as well as all affiliated counterparties, as explained above.
The counterparty reference data reported to AnaCredit by a reporting agent
effectively contain only one record for each counterparty as at a given reporting
reference date irrespective of how many observed agents (of the reporting agent)
actually relate to the given counterparty and regardless of how many roles the
counterparty takes on across the related observed agents.
The definitions of the counterparties distinguished are discussed in the following
sections.
3.2 Counterparties directly involved in instruments
Instruments reported to AnaCredit Generally, for AnaCredit, a creditor, servicer and debtor are always identified for
should have a debtor, creditor and
each instrument concerned. While there are also other counterparty roles that are
servicer
relevant in the context of AnaCredit, only the roles of creditor, servicer and debtor
are indispensable for determining the reporting obligation vis-à-vis an instrument.
Please refer to Sections 3.2.1.1 and 4.2 for details regarding how the roles of debtor,
creditor and servicer link with the reporting criteria for AnaCredit.
More detailed guidance regarding the counterparty-instrument dataset is provided in
Chapter 6 of Part II of this Manual, which deals specifically with this dataset.
3.2.1 Debtor
Article 1(12) of the AnaCredit Regulation defines a debtor as the counterparty which
has the unconditional obligation to make repayments arising under the instrument.
Consequently, and in line with Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation, the debtor is
the counterparty that generates the credit risk of an instrument.
There is always a debtor of any
instrument in AnaCredit
Accordingly, any counterparty which is unconditionally obliged to make payments
under an instrument qualifies as a debtor. For example, granting a credit to an
institutional unit makes the institutional unit a debtor under the AnaCredit Regulation,
because the institutional unit is a counterparty to the instrument.
Revision mark: this paragraph is In general, the (original) creditor has provided funds to the debtor or has confirmed
enhanced to clarify that instruments
to the debtor in legally binding terms that it will make funds available to the debtor
need not be essentially provided by
the observed agent in order to be
under the assumption (enforced by contract) that the debtor will return equivalent
subject to AnaCredit reporting
funds (and interest payments). However, in some cases, the (original) creditor need
not provide funds directly to the debtor but it has a right to receive payments from it
(e.g. when a guarantee is called and the guarantor pays amounts to the creditor
when the debtor fails to do so, the guarantor consequently has a claim on the debtor
and therefore becomes a creditor to the debtor (cf. Example 50 in Part II of the
Manual)).
An instrument may have one or more debtors from which the creditor has the right to
receive a payment or a series of payments.
Plurality of debtors is also referred If there are several debtors of the same instrument, a plurality of debtors occurs.
to as plural obligations
More specifically, a plurality of debtors occurs when two or more counterparties have
the unconditional obligation to make repayments arising under the same instrument,
irrespective of whether each debtor is (a) fully or (b) partially liable for the instrument.
In the context of AnaCredit, debtors are fully or partially liable debtors when they
unite, by contract, in making repayment arising under the same contract. Whether a
case of fully or partially liable debtors is present depends on the terms in the contract
regulating the obligation. More details about how to report the different possibilities
are provided in Sections 6.1.3, 6.1.4 and Chapter 7 of Part II of the Manual, which
deal specifically with the counterparty-instrument dataset and the joint liabilities
dataset respectively.
In the case of a plurality of debtors, all the debtors are identified, but only debtors
that are not natural persons are actually reported to AnaCredit (cf. Section 6.2.2.2
regarding reporting requirements in relation to instruments granted to both legal
entities and natural persons and Section 6.1.4 in Part II of the Manual on natural
persons).
3.2.1.1 Type of debtor driving AnaCredit reporting
Pursuant to Article 4(1)(b) of the AnaCredit Regulation, whether or not an instrument
held or serviced by the observed agent is subject to reporting depends on the type of
debtor of the instrument. Only those instruments where the debtor is a legal entity or
part of a legal entity are subject to AnaCredit reporting.
A legal entity is defined in Article 1(5) of the AnaCredit Regulation as any entity
which, under the national law to which it is subject, can acquire legal rights and
obligations.
In AnaCredit, legal entities are In the context of AnaCredit, a legal entity is an entity which is not a natural person
entities other than natural persons
and which can acquire legal rights and obligations under the national law to which it
is subject.
No natural persons in AnaCredit AnaCredit focuses only on debtors which are legal entities or part of a legal entity
(i.e. an institutional unit), and only such debtors are required to be identified and
registered. Conversely, debtors that are natural persons, and consequently
instruments where all debtors are natural persons, fall outside the scope of
AnaCredit.
Sole proprietors fall within the For clarification, sole proprietors (as defined in Annex A to Regulation (EU) No
scope of AnaCredit only if they are
549/2013) fall outside the scope of AnaCredit unless they are legal entities according
legal entities according to national
law
to national law.
More guidance in relation to the definition of legal entities and, in particular, how it
applies to partnerships and other smaller entity types is discussed in more detail in
Chapter 12 in Part II of the Manual, which deals specifically with the counterparty
reference data.
3.2.2 Creditor
A creditor in the AnaCredit Regulation is the counterparty bearing the credit risk of
an instrument other than a protection provider, i.e. the creditor is the counterparty
that has the right to receive a payment, irrespective of whether the creditor collects
the repayments directly or collection is carried out by a third party, which the debtor
is unconditionally obliged to make under the instrument, and irrespective of whether
or not the lack of payment is mitigated by any protection.
Revision mark: explicit clarification In the context of AnaCredit, creditor and debtor are symmetrical concepts. As a
is added that the debtor and the
consequence, the creditor and the debtor of an instrument can never be one and the
creditor of an instrument are two
different counterparties
same counterparty.
Generally, creditors lend funds to debtors, which leads to the creation of one of the
instruments referred to in Article 1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation, irrespective of
ownership.11
whether the creditor originated the instrument or acquired its economic
There is always a creditor of any For each instrument reported to AnaCredit, a creditor is explicitly identified and
instrument in AnaCredit
reported in the counterparty-instrument dataset.
The role of the creditor is illustrated in Example 1, which describes the basic
mechanics of traditional securitisations.
11
Counterparties that acquire the economic ownership of an instrument from a third party become
the creditor of the instrument from acquisition even though they have not directly lent funds to
the debtor.
Example 1: Creditors vis-à-vis traditional securitisation transactions
A traditional securitisation is a transfer of an instrument (or pool of instruments, or part
thereof) to a financial vehicle corporation (FVC), either by the transfer of legal title or
beneficial interest of the instruments from the originator or through sub-participation
where one or more sub-participants agree to fund an instrument in return for the right to
receive the principal and interest repayments for the instrument.
These are securitisations where the transferee acquires the economic ownership of the
instrument, in other words the legal title or the risk and rewards of the transferred
instruments.
In these securitisations, from the moment of the onward transfer, the transferor (i.e. the
original creditor) ceases to be the creditor of the instrument and the transferee (i.e. the
counterparty that acquires the instrument) becomes the new creditor.
When the original creditor only transfers part of the economic ownership of an
instrument, this counterparty remains the creditor to that part of the instrument that it
retains. In addition, because this transaction implies a true sale of the part of the
instrument that has been transferred, the transferee holds a new instrument in the
amount of the transferred part of the original instrument, where the transferee is the
creditor to this new instrument (i.e. the transferee acquires its economic ownership).
mark: a reference to More guidance on creditors is provided in Sections 6.1.2 and 6.4.1 in Part II of the
Revision
Part II of the Manual is added
Manual.
3.2.2.1 Observed agent acting as creditor
Instruments that are held by the observed agent are all those instruments of which
the observed agent is the creditor. All such instruments are considered to give rise to
credit risk for the observed agent. In other words, the following three expressions are
deemed to have the same meaning and are used interchangeably:
•
instruments held by the observed agent;
•
instruments in which the observed agent is the creditor;
•
instruments that give rise to credit risk for the observed agent.
Please note that holding an instrument does not imply that the instrument held is an
asset of the holder of the instrument – cf. Section 4.4 for more details.
3.2.3 Servicer
Article 1(14) of the AnaCredit Regulation defines a servicer as the counterparty
responsible for the administrative and financial management of an instrument.
In the context of AnaCredit, servicer Please note that the role of servicer is defined more broadly than within the meaning
relates both to securitised or
of Regulation (EU) No 1071/2013 (ECB/2013/33) (hereinafter referred to as the “BSI
otherwise transferred instruments
and to fiduciary instruments
Regulation”), where it is restricted to managing instruments underlying a
securitisation or instruments that have otherwise been transferred in terms of the
collection of principal and interest from the debtor. In other words, the term servicer
in the sense of the BSI Regulation is subsumed in the AnaCredit definition.
The servicer should be identified for The AnaCredit requirements stipulate that the servicer is identified for each
each instrument
instrument registered in the instrument dataset and the counterparty that acts as
servicer registered in the counterparty-instrument dataset.
In the most common case, the Most commonly, the roles of creditor and servicer are assumed by the same
creditor also acts as the servicer
counterparty, i.e. the creditor that holds an instrument is also responsible for its
administrative and financial management. However, there are specific cases where
the counterparties taking on these two roles need not coincide.
Revision mark: clarification is For instance, by selling or otherwise transferring the economic ownership of an
added that the creditor does not
instrument rather than holding it, the previous owner of the instrument generally
necessarily retain servicing rights
ceases to be the creditor of the instruments, but it normally (but not necessarily)
retains servicing rights. In this case the servicer and the creditor are different
counterparties and are both registered in the counterparty-instrument dataset from
the moment of transfer onwards.
Revision mark: clarification is In a similar vein, in some cases, especially in interbank lending (cf. Section 3.4.1 in
added concerning the possibility
Part II of the Manual concerning reporting in the case of nostro/vostro accounts), the
that the debtor and the servicer are
the same counterparty
debtor of an instrument may also be the servicer of the instrument.
Revision mark: this paragraph and The servicer is the counterparty that is responsible for the active management of an
the example are added in line with
instrument on a day-to-day basis (i.e. the counterparty that has the direct relationship
Q&A 2018/0007
with the debtor, e.g. collecting principal and interest payments), even if that
institution does not have any decision-making power in respect of the instrument
being serviced. Consider the following example.
Example 2: “Servicer” responsible for the administrative and financial management
An instrument is originated by a credit institution and then transferred to another
institution. Under the contract between the originating credit institution (the transferor)
and the institution which acquires the instrument (the transferee), the transferee has all
of the decision-making power in respect of the instrument. However, the administrative
processing continues to be performed by the transferor.
Let’s assume that the transferee is a “bad bank” which is not required to report to
AnaCredit. The instrument’s former creditor (i.e. the transferor), which acts as the
servicer of the instrument, is required to report to AnaCredit on the serviced instrument.
The transferor carries out all day-to-day business in respect of the instrument on behalf
of the “bad bank”.
Even though the transferor does not have any decision-making power in respect of the
instrument being serviced, the work that it carries out is included in the definition of
servicing, as explained in Section 6.4.1 in Part II of the Manual. Consequently, it is the
transferor (rather than the new creditor, which is not a reporting agent in the AnaCredit
framework) that is required to report to AnaCredit on the instrument in question.
mark: a reference to Please refer to Section 4.2 for more details on the activity of observed agents as
Revision
Section 4.2 is added
creditors or servicers.
3.2.4 Originator
In the case of instruments registered in the instrument dataset that are subject to
securitisation within the meaning of the Regulation (EU) No 1075/2013 (hereinafter
referred to as “the FVC Regulation”), the AnaCredit Regulation stipulates that the
counterparty acting as the originator of such a securitisation transaction is identified.
Pursuant to the FVC Regulation, the originator is the transferor of an instrument or
pool of instruments, and/or the credit risk of the instrument or pool of instruments to
the securitisation structure.
Furthermore, in accordance with the FVC Regulation, a securitisation is a transaction
in which an FVC issues financing instruments to investors, and one or more of the
following takes place:
(a) an instrument or pool of instruments, or part thereof, is transferred to the
FVC either by the transfer of legal title or beneficial interest of those
instruments from the originator or through sub-participation;
(b) the credit risk of an instrument or pool of instruments, or part thereof, is
transferred through the use of credit derivatives, guarantees or any
similar mechanism to the investors.
Whether or not an instrument is subject to securitisation is indicated accordingly in
the data attribute “type of securitisation” in the financial dataset.
For instruments subject to Consequently, for such instruments, where the data attribute “type of securitisation”
securitisation, the identification of
assumes either of the two values (a) “traditional securitisation” or (b) “synthetic
the originator in the
counterparty-instrument dataset is
securitisation”, the counterparty that is the originator in the securitisation transaction
mandatory
is identified. Conversely, if an instrument is not subject to securitisation, no originator
needs to be identified, even when the economic ownership of the instrument has
been transferred to a third party which becomes a new creditor and the transferor
remains the servicer.
Revision mark: a reference to Securitised instruments are typically still serviced by the originator. If this is the case,
instruments subject to securitisation
the originator is also the servicer and the same counterparty is thus registered as
in Part III of the Manual is added
both originator and servicer in the counterparty-instrument dataset. For more
information regarding instruments subject to securitisation, refer to Chapter 6 in
Part III of the Manual.
3.3 Counterparties acting as protection providers
3.3.1 Protection provider
The term protection provider is defined in Article 1(13) of the AnaCredit Regulation
as the counterparty that grants protection against a contractually agreed negative
credit event and that bears the credit risk of the negative credit event.
In the context of AnaCredit reporting, every protection item is granted by a protection
provider. For example, if real estate serves as protection, the owner of the real
estate is the protection provider. If government bonds owned by a legal entity are
pledged to secure an instrument (a loan), the legal entity is the protection provider.
The protection provider typically differs from the counterparty that issues the
protection, although the two do coincide for some types of protection. For instance,
guarantors who issue guarantees also act as protection providers –
cf. Section 6.2.2.4.
A protection provider is clearly distinguished from a debtor, and the distinction
between the debtor and the protection provider vis-à-vis an instrument is based on
who bears the unconditional obligation to make payments under the instrument. In
particular, the debtor is the counterparty that is unconditionally obliged to pay,
whereas any counterparty that is conditionally obliged to make payments or to
otherwise cede (pledged) protection to the creditor (i.e. upon the occurrence of a
certain negative credit event) is the protection provider.
For instance, in the case of a loan the debtor is the counterparty to which the loan is
granted and which is unconditionally obliged to pay it back. This counterparty is also
the debtor if the loan is secured by a third-party financial guarantee, as the guarantor
is only conditionally obliged to pay, i.e. the creditor does not have the right to request
payment from the guarantor unless the debtor fails to meet its payment obligation.
Similarly, the creditor does not have the right to seize the assets of the debtor
pledged as protection unless the debtor fails to meet its payment obligation.
The distinction between a debtor and a protection provider is further illustrated in
Example 3 and results from the way credit is generally modelled in AnaCredit, where
the instrument part is separated from the protection part (cf. Section 6.1).
Example 3: Debtor or protection provider?
For the purpose of AnaCredit, the distinction between the debtor of the instrument and
the protection provider that provides a protection item securing the instrument is generally
based on who bears the unconditional obligation to make payments under the instrument.
In particular, the debtor is the counterparty that is unconditionally obliged to make
payments, whereas any counterparty that is obliged only upon the occurrence of a certain
negative credit event is the protection provider.
For a loan secured by a guarantee whereby the guarantor agrees to pay to the creditor if
the debtor defaults, the guarantor is a protection provider as it is only obliged to provide
payment upon the default of the debtor, which is not an unconditional obligation.
However, the credit relationship is recorded between the creditor and the debtor until
such time as the guarantee is called, with the guarantor as protection provider, after the
guarantee is called the guarantor has an unconditional obligation to the creditor and
therefore assumes the role of debtor. At this point, if the guarantor is also a reporting
agent in the context of AnaCredit, the guarantor may also record a claim on the debtor on
its balance sheet. The claim needs to be reported to AnaCredit, where relevant. The
reason for reporting claims arising in this way to AnaCredit is that from the moment the
guarantor pays the original creditor it becomes a (new) creditor of the debtor.
A protection provider is also distinguished from a creditor.
The distinction between a creditor More specifically, the distinction between a creditor and a protection provider is that
and a protection provider
under a credit contract a creditor has the right to receive a payment (or series of
Revision mark: this paragraph is
payments) from the debtor unconditionally, but is entitled to receive payment from
completed with clarification of the
the protection provider only if the debtor fails to pay. The protection provider either
difference between a creditor and a
protection provider
makes payments or otherwise transfers (pledged) assets to the creditor subsequent
to a contractually agreed negative credit event taking place, and may often have the
right to recover those funds from the debtor and is entitled to assignment of the
creditor’s right against the debtor. Nevertheless, the creditor exercises this right in
the first place.
Revision mark: further clarification The protection received in the form of (pledged) assets may be explicit (e.g.
regarding the protection provider is
mortgage claims or securities pledged as collateral) or implicit (e.g. financial leases
added in line with Q&A 2018/0051
and reverse repurchase agreements) in the contract. Nonetheless, irrespective of
how the protection is received, the protection provider cannot be the same
counterparty as the creditor, as protection is essentially about a transfer of the credit
risk where the loss absorption in the event of a default is transferred from the creditor
to a counterparty other than the creditor (see Article 1(11) and (13) of the AnaCredit
Regulation).
The distinction between the role of the creditor and that of the protection provider is
illustrated by comparing the basic mechanics of traditional and synthetic
securitisations, as shown in Example 4.
Example 4: Creditor and protection provider vis-à-vis securitisation transactions
With regard to instruments that are subject to securitisation, a broad distinction is made
between:
•
Traditional securitisations (cf. Example 1 above).
In the case of traditional securitisations that are true sales, the transferee becomes the
new creditor of the part of the instruments over which it has acquired economic
ownership.
•
Synthetic securitisations – transfer of the credit risk of an instrument (or pool of
instruments, or part thereof), through the use of credit derivatives, guarantees or
any similar mechanism to the investors in the financing instruments issued by an
FVC. FVCs in this category may not fund the instruments whose credit risk is being
transferred.
In the case of synthetic securitisations, the counterparty that assumes the credit risk of
an instrument through the use of credit derivatives, guarantees or any similar
mechanism is not a creditor but a protection provider. Consequently, if the creditor
transfers the instrument to a third party through the use of a guarantee, the transferor is
the originator of the instrument and remains the creditor, while the third party becomes
a protection provider of the instrument.
mark: a reference to Please refer to Section 9.4.1 in Part II of the Manual for more details on protection
Revision
Part II is added
providers.
3.4 Counterparties affiliated with debtors and protection
providers
Revision mark: the footnote is Following the institutional unit criterion, the counterparties are legal entities or parts
dropped
of legal entities – i.e. foreign branches or the domestic part (headquarters plus all its
domestic branch offices).
3.4.1 Head office undertaking, domestic part and foreign branches
3.4.1.1 Head office undertaking
The head office undertaking in the sense of AnaCredit is the legal entity of which the
foreign branch or the domestic part is a legally dependent part.
A legal entity can only have one head office undertaking. Consequently, both the
foreign branches and a domestic part can only have one head office undertaking.
Since counterparties in AnaCredit The head office undertaking is identified for all debtors and protection providers that
are institutional units, a legal entity
are foreign branches (this identification is also recommended for debtors that are
is identified by the domestic part of
the legal entity
special funds – cf. Section 12.2.2.3 in Part II of the Manual). The head office
undertaking identifier coincides with the counterparty identifier of the domestic part.
Revision mark: the repeated
reference to the counterparty
identifier is dropped
These counterparties are discussed in more detail in Section 12.4.4 in Part II of the
Manual that deals specifically with the head office undertaking identifier.
3.4.1.2 Domestic part (of a legal entity)
Revision mark: clarification is The domestic part (of a legal entity) is an institutional unit which is a legally
added about the meaning of the
dependent part of a legal entity resident in the same country as that where the legal
domestic part in line with
Q&A 2018/0044
entity is incorporated. Please note, however, that in the AnaCredit data model, a
legal entity is in fact indistinguishable from its head office/domestic part as far as the
identification of counterparties is concerned. Consequently, these terms are often
used interchangeably in this regard (cf. Section 12.1 in Part II of the Manual).
Revision mark: the clarification on
the head office undertaking
identifier has been moved to Part II
of the Manual
3.4.1.3 Foreign branches
A foreign branch is an institutional unit which is a legally dependent part of a legal
entity located in a country other than where the legal entity is incorporated.
According to Article (1)(4) of the AnaCredit Regulation, a foreign branch is an
institutional unit which is a legally dependent part of a legal entity resident in a
different country to that where the legal entity is incorporated in accordance with the
concept of a “single branch” referred to in Article 2(3) of Regulation (EC) No
2533/98.
Accordingly, as there cannot be more than one institutional unit of a legal entity in a
country, there can only be one foreign branch in a given country.
The head office undertaking of a foreign branch is identified by means of the
counterparty identifier of the domestic part (of the legal entity of which the foreign
branch is part).
Revision mark: the former Section
3.4.1.3.1 has been moved to
Section 12.2.2.2 in Part II of the
Manual which deals specifically with
special funds
3.4.2 Immediate parent undertakings
The term immediate parent undertaking is defined in Annex IV of the AnaCredit
Regulation as the legal entity which is the immediate parent undertaking of the
counterparty. The AnaCredit Regulation also specifies that parent undertaking has
the same meaning as defined in Article 4(1)(15)(a) of the CRR.
According to Article 4(1)(15)(a) of the CRR parent undertaking means a parent
undertaking within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2 of Directive 83/349/EEC.
For a counterparty that is the domestic part or a foreign branch of a legal entity, the
immediate parent undertaking of the counterparty is the legal entity which is the
immediate parent undertaking of the legal entity of which the counterparty is part.
As counterparties in AnaCredit are institutional units, a legal entity is identified by the
domestic part of the legal entity (cf. Section 3.4.1.2).
Revision mark: the clarification
about the immediate parent
undertaking identifier has been
moved to Section 12.4.5 in Part II of
the Manual
3.4.3 Ultimate parent undertakings
The term ultimate parent undertaking is defined in Annex IV of the AnaCredit
Regulation as the legal entity which is the ultimate parent undertaking of the
counterparty. This ultimate parent undertaking has no parent undertaking. The
AnaCredit Regulation also specifies that parent undertaking has the same meaning
as defined in Article 4(1)(15)(a) of the CRR.
According to Article 4(1)(15)(a) of the CRR, the parent undertaking means a parent
undertaking within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2 of Directive 83/349/EEC.
Revision mark: the clarification For a counterparty that is the domestic part or a foreign branch of a legal entity, the
about the ultimate parent
ultimate parent undertaking of the counterparty is the legal entity which is the
undertaking identifier has been
moved to Section 12.4.6 in Part II of
ultimate parent undertaking of the legal entity of which the counterparty is part.
the Manual
4 Instruments covered in AnaCredit
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a notion of what an instrument is and
general reporting guidelines for identifying which instruments (within lending
transactions) of credit institutions are subject to AnaCredit reporting.
Pursuant to the AnaCredit Regulation, instruments held by observed agents and
instruments that are serviced by resident observed agents are considered in the
context of AnaCredit reporting, provided that they fulfil the other conditions referred
to in Articles 1, 4 and 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation. The criteria triggering the
reporting obligations are discussed in Chapter 5.
In general, AnaCredit aims to provide an analytical view of credit risk regardless of
the financial instrument or the accounting classification. As such, the requirements
laid down in the AnaCredit Regulation aim to ensure that reporting agents report to
AnaCredit credit and credit risk data for all their observed agents. In this connection,
the AnaCredit Regulation distinguishes between (i) instruments held by observed
agents and (ii) instruments serviced by observed agents.
With a view to identifying the instruments subject to reporting, this chapter focuses
only on the counterparty roles of creditor, servicer and debtor that are indispensable
for determining the reporting obligation vis-à-vis an instrument. It does not refer to
other roles that are generally relevant for AnaCredit. For a complete list of the roles
of counterparties please refer to Section 3.1 in the previous chapter.
4.1 The notion of contract and instrument
4.1.1 Contract
Pursuant to Article 1(22) of the AnaCredit Regulation, a contract is a legally binding
agreement between two or more parties under which one or multiple instruments are
created.
In the context of AnaCredit, a contract is a credit agreement between two or more
entities, with an entity acting as debtor and an entity acting as creditor, under which
the creditor normally provides the debtor with funds and the debtor commits to
paying them back.
Revision mark: clarification is One credit contract can give rise to one or more instruments. Moreover, one credit
added that they may be one or
contract may give rise to multiple credit facilities, and each credit facility may give
more instruments under a single
contract
rise to multiple instruments.
4.1.2 Instrument
In practice, instruments are typically In AnaCredit, credit is understood as any form of financial accommodation supplied
associated with an account
by a creditor to a debtor under a credit contract. In this connection, an instrument is a
specific instance of credit arising under a contract, with specified characteristics,
enabling the debtor to receive from the creditor funds to an amount or value
regulated in the contract.
AnaCredit considers instruments in the way that they are typically managed by credit
institutions, i.e. it considers instruments as banking products with outstanding
balances and credit limits.
A credit contract may be managed as a whole but may have different characteristics
for each instrument.
4.1.2.1 Outstanding balances and credit limits
Revision mark: this paragraph has From the perspective of a credit institution, instruments may have a positive or credit
been moved down from Section
balance where the credit institution owes funds to the counterparty; or a negative or
4.1.2
debit balance where the counterparty (debtor) owes funds to the credit institution.
A credit limit, in respect of a specific moment in time, is the maximum debit balance
allowed on an account at any given moment under the terms of the credit
agreement.
The debit balance should not at any Credit limits are established during the origination process (approval process) and
time rise above the specified credit
are intended to restrict the amount of debt that the creditor extends to a given debtor
limit
for the respective credit limit. When a debtor exceeds the credit limits, excesses
occur.
Outstanding balances as of a given date are the total payments made by or to the
debtor on the instrument’s account within a given period, i.e. the balance of the
instrument’s account at any point in time is the outstanding balance of the
instrument. In other words, outstanding balances are the amount of credit owed by
the debtor at a given point in time. For most instruments this is the total amount of
drawings and other amounts that are open under the instrument.
Outstanding balances are In the context of AnaCredit, all instruments’ outstanding balances are measured (and
measured on a gross basis, without
reported) without netting of protection, even in the case of 100% cash-backed
netting collateral
instruments.
Credit cross-limit structures define a Please note that credit limits and outstanding balances may be measured at different
credit cross-limit which restricts the
levels under the so-called credit cross-limit structures. Specifically, credit cross-limit
total amount to be drawn under one
or more related instruments, often
structures are points where outstanding balances are measured and compared to
in addition to the individual credit
credit limits. Depending on the type of business, credit limits only are granted at
limits of the instruments
certain levels of the credit cross-limit structure, whereas outstanding balances are
measured at all levels of the structure.
Multi-product credit facilities are typical examples of credit cross-limits, with the
amounts of credit available under two or more related products restricted not only by
the individual credit limits set for the products but also by the credit cross-limit.
The outstanding nominal amount is For a given instrument reported to AnaCredit, the individual outstanding balances
the amount drawn under the
under the instrument are reported in the data attribute “outstanding nominal amount”,
instrument; the off-balance sheet
amount is the amount that can be
whereas the maximum amount by which the outstanding balance can still be
potentially drawn so that the credit
increased within the credit limit associated with the instrument (and/or within the
limit is not exceeded
cross-limit following the credit cross-limit structure of which the instrument is a part)
is reported in the data attribute “off-balance sheet amount”.
For details and examples regarding credit limit structures and multiple instruments
under a credit cross-limit, please refer to Section 4.6.3 and also to Chapter 3 in
Part III of the Manual which deals specifically with credit facilities and credit cross-
limits.
Revision mark: the paragraph
about undrawn amounts has been
moved down to Section 4.6.3
4.1.3 Type of instrument
The type of instrument is used to classify instruments depending on certain
characteristics.
Pursuant to Article 1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation, only those instruments that are
specified in the data attribute “type of instrument”, as defined in Annex IV, are
considered for AnaCredit reporting. These types are:
•
Reverse repurchase agreements
•
Deposits other than reverse repurchase agreements
•
Overdraft
•
Credit card debt
•
Revolving credit other than overdrafts and credit card debt
•
Credit lines other than revolving credit
•
Trade receivables
•
Financial leases
•
Other loans
This means that any instruments which do not fall under any of the types listed
above are not considered in AnaCredit.
As regards the distinction between the different types of instrument, more detailed
guidance is provided in Section 3.4.1 in Part II of the Manual, which deals specifically
with the instrument dataset where the data attribute “type of instrument” is
discussed. In particular, Part II provides details on the distinctive characteristics of
the different types of instrument.
4.2 Acting as creditor or servicer
This section considers the activity of observed agents as creditors or servicers and
provides a description of how to identify the instruments subject to reporting based
on the various concepts referred to in Article 4 of the AnaCredit Regulation.
In the case of resident foreign Pursuant to Article 1(9) of the AnaCredit Regulation, the activity of an observed
branches of credit institutions that
agent as creditor or servicer is reported by the reporting agent.
are not resident in a reporting
Member State, the foreign branch is
the reporting agent, c.f. Section
While the creditor is the counterparty bearing the credit risk of an instrument, the
2.2.5
servicer is the counterparty responsible for the administrative and financial
management of an instrument (cf. Section 3.2.3). Although for many instruments the
same counterparty typically acts as both the creditor and the servicer, there are
instruments for which the two roles are assumed by different counterparties.
Instruments with a distinct creditor Every instrument for which a debtor and a creditor are expressly distinguished as
and debtor are considered to bear
different counterparties (also including different institutional units) is subject to credit
credit risk because the creditor may
not receive the payment that he has
risk, which means that the creditor may not receive (in full) a payment which it has
the right to receive from the debtor
the right to receive under the instrument. In other words, such an instrument gives
rise to credit risk for the creditor.
An institutional unit granting an For example, in the case of intracompany loans, granting a credit to an institutional
intracompany loan is the creditor,
unit makes the institutional unit a debtor under the AnaCredit Regulation, because
another institutional unit of the
same legal entity receiving such a
the institutional unit is the counterparty to the credit instrument.
loan is the debtor
Finally, for every instrument there is a counterparty – the servicer – that is
responsible for the administrative and financial management of the instrument.
Revision mark: this paragraph is Instruments are reported to AnaCredit where:
expanded, and footnotes are
added, to clarify the reporting
(a) the observed agent acts as the creditor, because it bears the credit risk of
requirements in greater detail
the instrument – this includes the case when the servicer is another credit
institution12
(or part of the same credit institution);
(b) the observed agent acts only as the servicer, but it recognises the
instrument as an asset (in accordance with the applicable accounting
standard) – this includes the case when the creditor of the instrument is
an observed agent;
(c) the observed agent acts only as the servicer and does not recognise the
instrument as an asset (in accordance with the applicable accounting
standard) and
12
Since counterparties in AnaCredit are institutional units, any reference to “a credit institution” is
to be understood as “a credit institution or a part of a credit institution”.
(i) the instrument was granted to other institutional units of the credit
institution of which the servicer forms part (cf. Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(i)); or
(ii) the creditor is a third party (to the observed agent) other than a credit
institution (or a part of a credit institution) resident in a reporting
Member State (cf. Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(ii)),
When the creditor and the servicer of an instrument are different observed agents,
double reporting to AnaCredit potentially arises if the servicer (although it is not the
creditor) recognises the instrument as an asset in accordance with the applicable
standard13
accounting (e.g. in the case of fiduciary instruments – cf. Section 4.5.3),
because the instrument is reported by both the creditor and the servicer which
recognises the instrument as an asset.
To establish whether an instrument is subject to AnaCredit reporting, it is necessary
to consider which roles the observed agent assumes.
All counterparties which act as As a general rule, the observed agent may assume the roles of both creditor and
creditors, debtors, servicers and
servicer, or just take one of the two roles (either creditor or servicer), in relation to
originators of an instrument should
be identified and reported
the same instrument.
From the perspective of an observed agent, a distinction is made between:
(a) instruments in which the observed agent acts as creditor;
(b) instruments in which the observed agent does not act as creditor but
does act as servicer;
(c) instruments in which the observed agent acts neither as creditor nor as
servicer.
Table 2 below presents an overview of the roles that an observed agent can take in
relation to an instrument by comparing the relationship between the creditor’s role
and the servicer’s role.
13
This is not possible when the servicer applies IFRS, because it cannot recognise the instrument
as an asset if it is not the creditor.
Table 2: Cross-tabulation of observed agent’s roles
The overview considers observed agents from the perspective of creditors and
servicers. Moreover, depending on which roles the observed agent assumes, an
indication is provided with regard to the implications for AnaCredit reporting concerning
which instruments are required for reporting, potentially required for reporting and not
required for reporting.
Observed agent acts as servicer of the instrument
Observed agent acts as Observed agent does not act
creditor as creditor
tnega recivres
eht
(Case III)
(Case I)
fo
Observed agent acts as servicer
devresbO
rotiderc Observed agent acts as
sa
& Observed agent does act
not
creditor servicer
both and
stca
as creditor
tnemurtsni
sa
seod
stca
recivres
tnega
tnega (Case II)
(Case IV)
Observed agent acts as
sa
Observed agent acts as neither
devresbO
devresbO
creditor & observed agent
tca
creditor nor servicer
does not act as servicer
ton
From the observed agent’s perspective:
•
instruments in relation to which the observed agent acts as creditor trigger the
reporting obligation to AnaCredit (cases I and II, indicated in green);
•
instruments in relation to which the observed agent acts as servicer but does not
act as creditor are subject to AnaCredit reporting only if certain conditions apply
(case III indicated in orange) – cf. Section 4.3;
•
instruments in relation to which the observed agent acts neither as creditor nor as
servicer are not required to be reported to AnaCredit (case IV, indicated in red).
The cross-tabulation helps understand how the two different roles are related to each
other. A total of four possibilities exist and are described below.
Case I. Observed agent is the creditor and the servicer
This case comprises all instruments in which the observed agent acts as both
Instruments in this class are
considered for AnaCredit reporting
creditor and servicer.
In the context of AnaCredit, this case is considered to represent the most common
situation, because for the majority of instruments the creditor is typically also
responsible for their administrative and financial management.
Examples of such instruments include loans granted by a credit institution, which is
also responsible for their administrative and financial management.
In a synthetic securitisation the Other examples include synthetic securitisations where the credit risk of (a portfolio
observed agent acts as creditor and
of) the instruments is transferred by means of a credit protection agreement, without
servicer
transferring the ownership of the securitised instruments, i.e. leaving the underlying
instrument in the ownership of the observed agent and on its balance sheet. More
specifically, although the credit risk of the observed agent is mitigated by a credit
derivative or a financial guarantee, the observed agent retains the right to receive the
payment from the debtor of the instrument and therefore meets the definition of a
creditor. Consequently, the observed agent acts as creditor and servicer of
instruments subject to synthetic securitisations. For more details regarding the
effects of synthetic securitisations on AnaCredit reporting, please refer to Chapter 6
in Part III of the Manual, which deals specifically with securitisations.
Instruments in this class are considered for reporting to AnaCredit.
Case II. Observed agent acts as creditor but does not act as servicer
This case comprises all instruments in which the observed agent acts as creditor but
where the responsibility for the administrative and financial management of the
instrument remains with a counterparty other than the observed agent.
Examples of such instruments include deposits placed by a credit institution with a
foreign branch of the credit institution, which are then placed on the market by the
foreign branch. Please note that the deposits involve the credit institution assuming
the credit risk (as creditor), while the foreign branch is the servicer.
A trustee is the holder of a financial Other examples include fiduciary loans when seen from the perspective of the
asset on behalf of a trustor
trustor, i.e. the entity that bears the credit risk. The trustor places these loans with a
(beneficiary)
third-party credit institution (trustee) in a fiduciary capacity, and they are then placed
on the market. In this situation the trustor acts as creditor and the third-party credit
institution acts as servicer.
Instruments in this class are considered for AnaCredit reporting.
Case III. Observed agent acts as servicer but does not act as creditor
The third case covers instruments where the observed agent does not act as creditor
but does act as servicer of such instruments.
In a traditional securitisation the Examples of such instruments include traditional securitisations that are a “true sale”,
observed agent acts as servicer but
where the observed agent transfers an instrument to a FVC but retains servicing
not creditor
rights. In such securitisation transactions the observed agent is responsible for the
administrative and financial management of the instrument but does not act as
creditor of the instrument. The creditor of such instruments is the FVC.
instruments14
Other examples include fiduciary where a credit institution (trustee)
places deposits on behalf of its clients (for instance with regard to their dealing room
transactions) in a fiduciary capacity (i.e. the risk is borne by the client and not by the
credit institution). In this case the credit institution does not act as creditor but only as
servicer.
Instruments in this class are considered for reporting as they may be relevant.
However, whether instruments are actually reported depends on whether or not they
are assets of the observed agent (i.e. when the observed agent reports these
instruments as assets in accordance with the applicable accounting standard) or
whether or not the third party that acts as creditor of those instruments is a (part of a)
resident credit institution – please refer to Section 4.3 for details.
Case IV. Observed agent acts as neither creditor nor servicer
No instruments in this category are Instruments in which the observed agent acts as neither creditor nor servicer are not
to be considered for AnaCredit
considered for AnaCredit reporting.
reporting
Case IV above comprises no cases relevant for AnaCredit reporting and is not
considered further.
4.3 Activities of an observed agent in the context of Article
4(1)(a)(i)-(iv)
Pursuant to Article 1(9) of the AnaCredit Regulation, AnaCredit requires that
instruments in which an observed agent acts as creditor or servicer are reported.
From the perspective of an observed agent, a distinction is made between the
activity of the observed agent as creditor and the activity of the observed agent as
servicer.
Insofar as instruments in relation to which the observed agent acts as creditor are
reportable under Article 4(1)(a)(i)-(iv), instruments in relation to which the observed
agent acts only as servicer are not automatically considered relevant for reporting.
Chart 8 presents a decision tree to help determine which instruments are relevant in
the context of AnaCredit considering solely Article 4(1)(a)(i)-(iv).
Revision mark: the chart is The respective parts of the decision tree are further discussed in the following
adjusted to align with Section 4.5.1
sections.
14
Please note that this is exactly the opposite situation to that referred to under Case II in the same
section.
Chart 8: Flow chart for instruments held or serviced
The following chart provides an indication of the reporting of instruments in which the
observed agent acts either as creditor (in green) or as servicer and not as creditor (in
orange).
Instrument
Does the observed Does the observed
agent act as creditor No agent act as servicer No
to the instrument? to the instrument?
Yes
Yes
Is the observed
The instrument is subject to
Is the instrument an
agent resident in a
reporting in accordance with
No No
asset of the observed
reporting Member
Article 4(1)a(i)
agent?
State?
Yes
Yes
The instrument is subject to
reporting in accordance with
Article 4(1)a(ii)
Is the creditor of the
Yes
instrument an
observed agent?
No
The instrument is subject to
The instrument is NOT
reporting in accordance with
subject to reporting
Article 4(1)a(iv)
4.3.1 The activity of the observed agent as creditor
The activity of the observed agent as creditor vis-à-vis an instrument implies that the
instrument gives rise to credit risk for the observed agent. In this case, the
instrument is subject to AnaCredit reporting (irrespective of whether or not the
observed agent is the servicer of such instrument) because it fulfils the condition
described in Article 4(1)(a)(i) of the AnaCredit Regulation:
(i) gives rise to credit risk for the observed agent.
The activity of the observed agent as creditor is covered in cases I and II, as referred
to in Section 4.2.
Please note that although instruments for which the observed agent acts as creditor
generally constitute assets of the observed agent, for the condition in Article
4(1)(a)(i) to be fulfilled it is irrelevant whether or not an instrument is an asset of the
observed agent under Article 4(1)(a)(ii) and (iii), as long as the observed agent acts
as creditor of such instruments.
Similarly, whether or not the observed agent is resident in a reporting Member State
is of no relevance.
The specific kinds of instrument relevant for this section are discussed in more detail
in Section 4.4, which deals specifically with instruments relevant for the activity as
creditor.
For example, intracompany loans for which the observed agent acts as creditor fulfil
the condition in Article 4(1)(a)(i). This is further described in Section 4.6.5.
4.3.2 The activity of the observed agent as servicer
If the reporting obligation in respect of an instrument is not triggered by an observed
agent acting as creditor of the instrument, it may still be triggered by an observed
agent acting as servicer.
According to Article 1(14) of the AnaCredit Regulation, a servicer is the counterparty
responsible for the administrative and financial management of an instrument, and
case III, as referred to in Section 4.2, may arise under any of the following conditions
of Article 4(1)(a)(ii), (iii), (iv) (i.) and (iv) (ii.) where the instrument:
(ii) is an asset of the observed agent, or
(iii) is recognised under the relevant accounting standard used by the
observed agent’s legal entity and gave rise to credit risk for the observed
agent in the past, or
(iv) is serviced by the observed agent resident in a reporting Member State;
and
i. was granted to other institutional units of the same legal entity that the
observed agent is part of, or
ii. is held by a legal entity which is not a credit institution resident in a
reporting Member State different to the observed agent.
Please note that Article 4(1)(a)(iii) is considered to be superseded by Article
4(1)(a)(ii) – cf. Section 4.4.1 – and is not analysed separately.
Instruments which are subject to a traditional securitisation in which an FVC
acquiring the instruments acts as creditor and the observed agent that retains
servicing rights acts as servicer fulfil the condition in Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(ii).
Intracompany loans in which the observed agent acts as servicer but does not act as
creditor fulfil the condition in Article 4(1)(a)(iv).
Instruments in which a non-resident Please note that instruments that are assets of the observed agent for which the
observed agent acts as servicer
observed agent acts as servicer (but not as creditor) are considered for AnaCredit
(but not as creditor) fall outside the
scope of AnaCredit unless they are
reporting, irrespective of whether or not the observed agent is resident in a reporting
assets of the observed agent
Member State.
Revision mark: clarification is As regards fiduciary loans, under certain accounting standards, the trustee can
added that this depends on the
choose whether or not to treat such loans as assets. Therefore, fiduciary loans may
applicable accounting standard
or may not be assets of the trustee. If the trustee is an observed agent, the observed
agent acts as servicer but does not act as creditor of such instruments.
Consequently, fiduciary loans are reported to AnaCredit according to
Article 4(1)(a)(ii) or (iii) if they are treated as an asset or according to Article
4(1)(a)(iv) otherwise.
Please note that instruments considered in this section are those where the
observed agent does not act as creditor. Instruments where the observed agent acts
as creditor are considered in Section 4.3.1.
The specific kinds of instrument relevant for this section are discussed in more detail
in Section 4.5, which deals specifically with instruments relevant for the activity as
servicer but not as creditor.
4.4 Instruments relevant for the activity as creditor
This section considers in more detail instruments for which the observed agent acts
as creditor.
These are instruments included in Cases I and II referred to in Section 4.2 cover all instruments held by the observed
cases I and II
agent. It is irrelevant whether or not such instruments are actually serviced by the
observed agent.
Depending on the applicable accounting standard, an instrument for which the
observed agent acts as creditor may be an asset of the observed agent or an off-
balance sheet item. This is described in more detail in the subsequent sections.
4.4.1 Instruments that are assets of the observed agent
Revision mark: this paragraph is Pursuant to the AnaCredit Regulation, and in particular the definition of the
expanded with clarifications
accounting standard and Section 6.2 in Annex I to the AnaCredit Regulation, the
regarding the accounting standard
applicable to resident foreign
accounting standard relevant for AnaCredit reporting is the accounting standard
branches of non-resident credit
used by the observed agent’s legal entity (unless the observed agent is a foreign
institution in line with
Q&A 2018/0041
branch resident in a reporting Member State of a credit institution non-resident in a
reporting Member State, in which case the applicable accounting standard is the
accounting standard applied by the observed agent in the country where it is
resident, rather than the accounting standard applied by the legal entity to which the
foreign branch belongs). In this connection, Article 4(1)(a)(ii) is deemed to refer, in
accordance with Article 1(9), to economic assets recorded on the balance sheet of
the observed agent’s legal entity.
Revision mark: the scope of Article Furthermore, the first part of Article 4(1)(a)(iii) – “is recognised under the relevant
4(1)(a)(iii) is added
accounting standard used by the observed agent’s legal entity” – is regarded to have
the same meaning as “is an asset of the observed agent” as referred to in
Article 4(1)(a)(ii). Consequently, Article 4(1)(a)(iii) – regarding instruments
recognised under the relevant accounting standard used by the observed agent’s
legal entity – is considered to be superseded by Article 4(1)(a)(ii) (which covers both
types of assets – i.e. both giving and not giving rise to credit risk) and is not further
considered separately.
In general, a counterparty may be the legal and/or economic owner of an asset. The
economic owner bears the risks and is entitled to claim the benefits associated with
the asset. The economic owner thus treats the instrument as an asset. Therefore,
the economic owner reports to AnaCredit according to Article 4(1)(a)(i) and (ii).
Revision mark: clarification is However, if the legal owner is not the economic owner of the instrument, it does not
added that the optionality is only
assume the benefits and risks associated with the instrument, and, for that reason, it
relevant for some accounting
standards
does not recognise the instrument as an asset. Nevertheless, in the case of fiduciary
loans, in accordance with some accounting standards other than IFRS), the legal
owner may treat the instrument as an asset on its balance sheet. If this is the case,
the legal owner has a reporting obligation to AnaCredit according to Article 4(1)(a)(ii)
even though the instrument does not give rise to credit risk for the legal owner.
4.4.2 Instruments not recognised under the relevant accounting standard
Revision mark: an explanation is Instruments in which the observed agent acts as creditor but which are not
added that the accounting standard
recognised under the relevant accounting standard may be assets of the observed
applied by the observed agent’s
legal entity is the only relevant
agent in accordance with the definition of an asset included in Article 1(20) of the
accounting standard under
AnaCredit Regulation, although they are not assets of the observed agent’s legal
AnaCredit even though observed
agents may prepare a balance
entity. Nonetheless, the accounting standard applied by the observed agent’s legal
sheet separate from the observed
entity is the only relevant accounting standard under AnaCredit.
agent’s legal entity
Revision mark: a qualification of The general principle is that the category of instruments in which the observed agent
the assets is added
acts as creditor is broader than the category of instruments that are assets of the
observed agent under the relevant accounting standard. Such instruments include:
(a) intracompany loans, where the observed agent grants a loan to another
institutional unit of the legal entity of which the observed agent is part
(these loans are not assets recognised under the accounting standard of
the observed agent’s legal entity);
(b) instruments that are written off, where the observed agent still has a claim
on a third party (debtor) but the instruments are no longer recognised
under the applicable accounting standard.
Such instruments are subject to AnaCredit reporting in line with the general criteria
triggering the reporting obligation as discussed in Chapter 5, which include the
debtor’s commitment amount.
As regards written-off instruments in particular, such instruments are reported as
long as the debtor’s commitment amount reaches or exceeds the reporting threshold
of €25,000, or until the end of the quarter in which instruments were written off if the
debtor’s commitment amount is less than €25,000. This is further explained in
Section 5.2.2.2.
4.5 Instruments relevant for the activity as servicer but not as
creditor
This section considers instruments where the observed agent acts only as servicer
and the instrument is not subject to reporting by the creditor of the instrument.
Instruments in which the observed agent is also the creditor are considered in
Section 4.4.
Please note that if an NCB grants a In the case of an instrument held by a third party (i.e. in which a third party acts as
derogation in accordance with
creditor), the activity of an observed agent located in a reporting Member State as
Article 16(1) of the AnaCredit
Regulation to a credit institution
servicer to the instrument is subject to AnaCredit reporting if the activity of the third
which holds an instrument, the
party as creditor of the instrument is not already subject to AnaCredit reporting. In
instrument is still not subject to
reporting by the servicer.
this connection, the AnaCredit Regulation stipulates that the instrument serviced by
the observed agent (which does not act as creditor) is subject to reporting if the
instrument is not held by a (part of a) credit institution resident in a reporting Member
State.
For instance, instruments that are subject to a traditional securitisation where the
observed agent transfers the instrument to an FVC while retaining servicing rights
are in principle considered to fulfil the conditions of Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(ii). Upon the
transfer of the instrument, the observed agent acts as servicer (and originator) of the
instrument, whereas the FVC, upon acquiring the right to receive the principal and
interest payments for the instrument, acts as creditor of the instrument. As the FVC
is not a credit institution, the instrument, which is serviced by the observed agent, is
only subject to reporting (in relation to the activity of the observed agent as servicer
but not creditor) if the observed agent is resident in a reporting Member State. The
country of residence of the FVC is irrelevant with regard to the reporting obligation of
the observed agent.
However, an instrument serviced by an observed agent not resident in a reporting
Member State is not considered to be subject to AnaCredit reporting, provided that
the observed agent does not act as creditor of such an instrument.
Chart 8 in Section 4.3 presents a decision tree which summarises the reporting
obligations from the observed agent’s perspective, where the boxes in orange focus
on instruments that are serviced but not held by the observed agent.
Please note that – broadly speaking – securitised or otherwise transferred
instruments in relation to which the observed agent acts as servicer constitute the
main category of instruments relevant for the activity as servicer but not as creditor.
The category also includes fiduciary instruments, where the trustee is the observed
agent. Such instruments are discussed in more detail in the following sections.
4.5.1 Not reporting serviced instruments to avoid double reporting
Instruments that are serviced (but not held) by one observed agent and held by
another observed agent are in principle subject to double reporting. However, the
AnaCredit Regulation aims to avoid double reporting in such cases by requiring in
Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(ii) that serviced instruments are reported only on condition that they
are not held by another observed agent.
More specifically, given the fact that instruments held by observed agents are in
principle subject to mandatory AnaCredit reporting, double reporting – which
essentially could arise in the case of instruments that are held by one observed
agent but serviced by another observed agent – is avoided by exempting the activity
of the servicer from reporting.
In this connection, the provisions of Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(ii) should be interpreted to mean,
in respect of instruments in which a third party acts as creditor, that the activity of an
observed agent located in a reporting Member State as servicer to the instrument is
subject to reporting to AnaCredit only if the third party acting as creditor to the
instrument is not a (part of a) credit institution resident in a reporting Member State.
Revision mark: the clarification Example 5 presents a situation in which the data of both the servicer and the creditor
pertaining to Scenario 2 is
are potentially subject to reporting.
expanded
Example 5: Same instrument held by one observed agent and serviced by another
This example considers a fiduciary instrument (cf. Section 4.5.3) from the perspectives
of the trustor and the trustee:
•
trustor C holds an instrument which gives rise to credit risk;
•
the instrument is serviced by trustee A, who acts as trustee for trustor C;
•
counterparty B is the debtor of the instrument; counterparty B is a legal entity.
The fiduciary instrument is first considered from the trustor C perspective:
If trustor C is an observed agent then reporting of the instrument is triggered by Article
4(1)(a)(i) – the instrument gives rise to credit risk for the observed agent.
Conclusion: the reporting agent relevant for the observed agent (trustor C) reports the
instrument.
The instrument is now considered from the trustee A perspective:
Scenario 1 – the instrument is not an asset of trustee A in accordance with the relevant
accounting standard.
If trustee A is an observed agent resident in a reporting Member State, reporting of the
instrument is triggered if trustor C is not a credit institution (or a foreign branch of a
credit institution) resident in a reporting Member State. In such cases reporting is
exclusively triggered by Article 4(1)(a)(iv)(ii).
If trustor C is a credit institution (or a foreign branch of a credit institution) resident in a
reporting Member State, the instrument is not required to be reported by the reporting
agent related to the observed agent (trustee A).
Scenario 2 – the instrument is an asset of trustee A recognised under the applicable
accounting standard.
If trustee A is an observed agent, reporting of the instrument is triggered by Article
4(1)(a)(ii), irrespective of whether or not trustee A is resident in a reporting Member
State. It is also irrelevant whether or not trustor C is a credit institution (or a foreign
branch of a credit institution) resident in a reporting Member State. When the trustor is
also an observed agent, double reporting to AnaCredit occurs because the same
instrument is reported by both the trustor (in accordance with Article 4(1)(a)(i)) and the
trustee (in accordance Article 4(1)(a)(ii)).
4.5.2 Securitised or otherwise transferred instruments except synthetic
securitisations
Collection of serviced instruments is The primary aim behind including in AnaCredit instruments that are serviced by the
primarily aimed at capturing credit
observed agent but held by a third party is to collect instruments whose (economic)
risk of FVCs in traditional
securitisation, as FVCs are not
ownership has been transferred by the originator and which are not reported by the
observed agents pursuant to
new creditor. Such a situation typically concerns traditional securitisations and loan
AnaCredit
transfers other than synthetic securitisations, where, by selling or otherwise
mark: the rationale is
Revision
transferring the instruments rather than holding them, the observed agent ceases to
rewritten in more general terms
be the creditor of the instruments but retains the servicing rights.
Beside the roles of creditor, debtor In the case of traditional securitisations, the economic ownership of the instrument is
and servicer, it is necessary to
transferred, generally leading to the derecognition of the instrument by the originator
identify the originator with regard to
securitisation transactions
(the transferor) and the recognition of the instrument by the new owner on its
balance sheet. The transferor is no longer to be identified as the creditor but as the
originator. The transferee, which is the new owner of the instrument from an
economic perspective, is to be recognised as the creditor. If the transferor retains
servicing rights in respect of the transferred instruments, the transferor is also
recognised as the servicer. From the perspective of an observed agent who acts as
servicer, such instruments therefore are in principle considered for AnaCredit
reporting.
In the case of transfers of instruments according to Part 5 of the BSI Regulation,
other than securitisation transactions, where the economic ownership of the
instrument has been partly or fully transferred to a third party, the counterparty
responsible for its administrative and financial management may differ from the
creditor. The counterparty which originally held the instrument generally (but not
necessarily) remains the servicer.
For more information regarding instruments subject to securitisation please refer to
Chapter 6 in Part III of the Manual.
4.5.3 Fiduciary instruments
From the perspective of an observed agent, fiduciary instruments are those for which
the observed agent acts in its own name but on behalf of and with the risk borne by a
third party. The third party who is the economic owner of the instruments is therefore
the creditor. The observed agent, who is solely responsible for the administrative and
financial management of the instruments, is the servicer of such instruments.
Fiduciary instruments in which the observed agent acts only as servicer are
generally subject to AnaCredit reporting. However, the exact reporting obligation
depends on their accounting treatment.
As discussed in Sections 4.3.2 and 4.5.1, fiduciary instruments may or may not be
assets of the trustee. If the trustee is an observed agent, the observed agent acts as
servicer but does not act as creditor of such instruments. Fiduciary instruments are
therefore reported to AnaCredit according to Article 4(1)(a)(ii) or (iii) of the AnaCredit
Regulation if they are treated as assets, regardless of whether or not the creditor is
an observed agent.
In particular, non-asset fiduciary instruments are only reported to AnaCredit if the
servicer (trustee) to such instruments is an observed agent resident in a reporting
Member State whereas the creditor (trustor) is not a credit institution (or a foreign
branch of a credit institution) resident in a reporting Member State.
Please note that only certain data attributes of the accounting dataset are applicable
for non-asset fiduciary instruments and proper values can be reported.
4.6 Other instrument-related aspects for consideration
This section focuses on certain features of instruments that affect their reporting to
AnaCredit.
4.6.1 Instruments recorded on the liabilities side of the balance sheet
In accordance with Section 4.4, instruments that give rise to credit risk to the
observed agent are either assets of the observed agent or are not recorded on the
balance sheet. Such instruments are never liabilities of the observed agent,
however.
Conversely, any instruments that are of any of the specified types but are a liability of
the observed agent are not considered for reporting.
Revision mark: the example is Example 6 provides clarification on which deposits are considered and which ones
expanded in line with
disregarded for AnaCredit reporting.
Q&A 2018/0014 on nostro/vostro
accounts
Example 6: Which deposits are considered and which deposits are not within the
scope of AnaCredit
In accordance with Regulation 549/2013, interbank positions between credit institutions
are generally referred to as deposits. For example, this is mentioned in points 5.81,
5.114, but most notably in point 5.119 thereof.
To this end, although deposits are in principle the type of instrument considered in
AnaCredit, in no case does it imply that any deposits that are recorded on the liabilities
side of the balance sheet fall within the scope of AnaCredit.
As a matter of fact, placements of funds between credit institutions are always recorded
as deposits, irrespective of whether they are on the assets or liabilities side. To be
considered for AnaCredit, however, a deposit should give rise to credit risk for the
observed agent. Specifically, the only deposits that fall within the scope of AnaCredit
are assets in accordance with Article 4(1)(a)(ii) or give rise to credit risk for the observed
agent in accordance with Article 4(1)(a)(i). Consequently, no deposits on the liabilities
side (i.e. received deposits) fall within the scope of the collection.
If, however, the deposit’s balance on the reporting reference data is such that the
observed agent has a claim on the other credit institution – i.e. it is the observed agent’s
funds that are on deposit – the deposit balance is subject to AnaCredit reporting. This is
particularly relevant for nostro/vostro accounts.
A nostro/vostro account is a bank account where one bank has another bank’s funds on
deposit, typically on behalf of a foreign bank in relation to international trade or other
financial transactions. This also involves deposit overdrafts, whereby depositors are
authorised to obtain funding in the form of an overdraft. The terms “nostro” and “vostro”
are used to indicate which bank has money on deposit.
A nostro/vostro account is only subject to AnaCredit reporting if, on the reporting
reference date, the account’s balance is such that the observed agent has a claim on
the other credit institution – i.e. it is the observed agent’s money that is on deposit in the
account (“nostro”). Conversely, “vostro” balances are not subject to AnaCredit reporting.
As the balance of a nostro/vostro account can change from one reporting reference
date to another – changing, for example, from “nostro” to “vostro” and back again – the
account may not be subject to AnaCredit reporting on all reporting reference dates.
4.6.2 Instruments that are not eligible
mark: this paragraph is Instruments which are held or serviced by the observed agent but which are not one
Revision
expanded with examples of
of the types of instrument referred to in Article 1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation do
instruments outside the scope of
the collection
not fall within the scope of the collection (for example, debt securities, financial
guarantees and commitments given).
With this in mind, Example 7 describes an instrument which gives rise to credit risk
for the observed agent but is not considered to be subject to AnaCredit reporting.
Example 7: Financial guarantees given by a credit institution (observed agent)
A credit institution (bank X) whose activity as creditor or servicer is reported by its
reporting agent provides, upon request by company C, a financial guarantee to
company C that if company B, a client of bank X, fails to meet its payment obligation
towards company C, bank X will pay a guaranteed amount to company C.
In this case the guarantee given by bank X is an instrument giving rise to credit risk for
bank X. However, guarantees given are not one of the types of instrument referred to in
Article 1(23) and such instruments therefore fall outside the scope of the collection.
Nevertheless, if company B fails to meet its payment obligation and bank X pays out the
amount guaranteed to company C, then the guarantee becomes a loan for which bank
X acts as creditor (as bank X has the right to receive payment from company B) and is
reported by bank X (in its capacity as an observed agent) (cf. “other loans” in
Section 3.4.1 in Part II of the Manual).
4.6.3 Off-balance-sheet items in the scope of AnaCredit
mark: Section 4.6.3 is Instruments that are held or serviced by the observed agent are subject to AnaCredit
Revision
expanded in line with
reporting provided that the debtor’s commitment amount reaches or exceeds the
Q&A 2018/0010 on off-balance-
sheet items within the scope of
reporting threshold (subject to the fulfilment of other conditions, such as that at least
AnaCredit
one debtor of the instrument is not a natural person and that the type of instrument is
within the scope of Article 1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation) for which the off-
balance-sheet amount is relevant.
Overall, as regards off-balance-sheet items, AnaCredit differentiates between
off‑balance-sheet
“undrawn amounts”, which are components of instruments eligible
for reporting to AnaCredit (cf. Section 4.6.3.1), and strict off-balance-sheet items.
Strict off-balance-sheet items, such as loan commitments, financial guarantees and
other commitments as defined in paragraphs 113, 114 and 115 of Part 2 of Annex V
to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014 of 16 April 2014, as
amended by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2017/1443 of 29 June
2017 (hereinafter referred to as “the amended ITS”), which do not have outstanding
balances are not considered to be any of the types of instrument referred to in Article
1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation.
In particular, in accordance with paragraph 113 of Part 2 of Annex V to the amended
ITS, “loan commitments” are firm commitments to provide credit under pre-specified
terms and conditions, except those that are derivatives because they can be settled
net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument. They include:
•
“forward deposits”;
•
“undrawn credit facilities” which comprise agreements to “lend” or provide
“acceptance facilities” under pre-specified terms and conditions.
As regards other products referred to, such as letters of credit or guarantees, these
are reported only as protection received items for the creditor. They are not reported
as instruments, as they do not fall within the types of instrument referred to in Article
1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation.
4.6.3.1 Instruments comprising off-balance-sheet amounts
This section provides relevant clarification with regard to instruments which consist
of off-balance-sheet (undrawn) amounts.
Revision mark: this paragraph is Whether there is any off-balance-sheet amount for an instrument depends on (a) the
consolidated with the clarifications
general drawing possibilities vis-à-vis the instrument (for example, some instruments
moved down from Section 4.1.2.1
by definition do not have any off-balance-sheet amount) and (b) whether the
instrument is associated with a credit limit. In respect of (a), the following distinction
is made:
(i) a revolving credit is an instrument under a credit contract whereby the
debtor’s outstanding balances are permitted to fluctuate (i.e. increase and
decrease) such that, taking into account payments made by or to the credit
of the debtor, the credit limit is not exceeded;
(ii) a non-revolving credit is an instrument under a credit contract whereby the
debtor is enabled to receive funds (whether in one amount or in
instalments) which are not replenished after payments are made by the
debtor (or to the instrument of the debtor).
As regards (b), there are three generic types of credit limits and all types of credit
limits can essentially be set using these generic types of credit limits:
(iii) credit cross-limits, which are given to limit the amount of credit for two or
more related instruments; instruments under a credit cross-limit may have
credit sub-limits;
(iv) credit sub-limits, which are individual credit limits set for instruments under
a credit cross-limit that limit the amount of credit that a debtor can have
under a given instrument;
(v) independent credit limits, which are individual credit limits that do not have
a superior credit limit (i.e. a credit cross-limit) to restrict the use of credit
thereunder.
Revision mark: an explanation is The above implies that, while certain types of instrument reported to AnaCredit can
added in line with Q&A 2018/0010
only have a positive outstanding nominal amount, there are also reportable types of
instrument for which the outstanding nominal amount may be zero (and for which
there is an intrinsic off-balance-sheet amount).
More guidance regarding reporting in the case of credit cross-limit structures (e.g.
multi-product credit facilities) is provided in Section 3.4 in Part III of the Manual,
which deals specifically with the subject of multiple instruments linked to a single
credit cross-limit.
Revision mark: the former
Section 4.6.3.1 has been moved to
Chapter 3 in Part III of the Manual
4.6.4 Loans between entities of the same group – intercompany loans
Intercompany loans are not Intercompany loans (as opposed to intracompany) in which one legal entity of a
intracompany loans
group grants a loan to another legal entity of the same group are instruments giving
rise to credit risk. In particular, intercompany loans comprise loans between parent
and subsidiary.
In the context of AnaCredit, intercompany loans for which the observed agent acts
as creditor or servicer are essentially no different from any other instruments for
which the observed agent is the creditor or servicer and the same reporting
requirements apply. More specifically, if a legal entity holding such an instrument is
an observed agent in AnaCredit, the instrument is subject to reporting following the
instructions in Section 4.4.1.
4.6.5 Intracompany loans
4.6.5.1 Intracompany loans held by the observed agent
Revision mark: a definition of Intracompany loans are loans extended by one institutional unit of a legal entity to
intracompany loans is added in line
another institutional unit of the same legal entity – e.g. between the domestic part
with the glossary
and a foreign branch of the legal entity or between two foreign branches of the same
legal entity.
In the context of AnaCredit, intracompany loans are subject to reporting primarily
because the observed agent that extends such loans acts as creditor of these
instruments. Furthermore, loans between institutional units are also reported in the
context of BSI statistics.
Intracompany loans may be registered on the balance sheet of the institutional unit,
but these intracompany loans are not recognised on the balance sheet of the legal
entity. Consequently, no accounting information is required in the accounting dataset
for such loans. In fact, intracompany loans for which the observed agent acts as
creditor meet the condition in Article 4(1)(a)(i). In this respect it is irrelevant whether
or not such instruments are serviced by the observed agent.
In the AnaCredit Regulation, credit risk is defined at the level of institutional units. In
accordance with Article 1(21), credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to make
any payments that it is contractually obliged to make, while pursuant to Article 1(10)
a counterparty is an institutional unit.
Chart 9 presents an example of a credit institution which provides intracompany
loans to its foreign branches in Italy, Spain and the USA.
Chart 9: Stylised intracompany loans to foreign branches
Intracompany loans are loans extended by one unit of a legal entity to another unit of
the same legal entity. Companies make intracompany loans to, for example, shift cash
within business units that use a common currency, rather than sending in funds from a
foreign location that will be subject to exchange rate fluctuations.
In the context of AnaCredit, intracompany loans within credit institutions are captured at
the level of the institutional unit.
In this example, a credit institution established in France extends intracompany loans to
its foreign branches in Italy, Spain and the USA.
n
l o a
an y
m p USA I
a c o to n
n t r t h e t
I ch i n a r
an fo a
b r c
e i g n r o
f o r
to a e i m
g p
n a
n
b y
ra lo
n
c a
h n
Spain i
n n
I
a t
o al
l in y
y
n
h
a
p c
m n
a
o r
c b
a
n
r g
t
n ei
I
r
o
f
a
o
t
Observed agents
The domestic part
Reporting agent
Foreign branches
In all these intracompany loans, the creditor is the observed agent located in France,
which is the domestic part of the credit institution. The debtors are the respective foreign
branches that receive the loans. All the intracompany loans are subject to AnaCredit
reporting (provided that they fulfil the conditions set out in Articles 1, 4 and 5 of the
AnaCredit Regulation).
The loans are reported to AnaCredit via the reporting agent on behalf of the observed
agent that is the creditor of these loans, i.e. the institutional unit of the credit institution
that is located in France.
Revision mark: clarifications about If nostro/vostro accounts (as referred to in Example 6 in Section 4.6.1) are
nostro/vostro accounts are added in
exchanged between different institutional units of the same credit institution, they are
line with Q&A 2018/0015
reported to AnaCredit because the different institutional units involved are distinct
counterparties. Moreover, the deposit balance of the account determines which
counterparty is reported as the creditor (the one with the debit balance – the “nostro”
account) and which is reported as the debtor (the one with the credit balance – the
“vostro” account). The following example illustrates how such accounts are reported
to AnaCredit.
Example 8: Reporting of intracompany vostro/nostro accounts
A credit institution runs a nostro/vostro account, which it uses to settle (intracompany)
transactions with its foreign branch.
Initially, on 31 March 2019, the balance of the nostro/vostro account is such that the
domestic part of the credit institution has a claim on the foreign branch (i.e. the account
is a nostro account from the perspective of the domestic part of the credit institution). In
this case, an instrument (i.e. “deposits other than reverse repurchase agreements”) is
reported to AnaCredit, whereby the domestic part is reported as both the creditor and
the servicer and the foreign branch is reported as the debtor.
Later, on 30 April 2019, the balance of the nostro/vostro account is such that the foreign
branch has a claim on the domestic part of the credit institution (i.e. the account is a
nostro account from the perspective of the foreign branch). In this case, the foreign
branch is the observed agent and is reported as the creditor and the domestic part is
reported as both the debtor and the servicer).
Intracompany loans made within
institutional units are not subject to
Intracompany loans provided between branch offices of a credit institution located in
reporting
the same country (as opposed to foreign branches in different countries) are not
subject to AnaCredit reporting because these are loans made within a single
institutional unit. This is because units of a single entity located in a single country
form a single institutional unit, and any transactions within institutional units are not
recognised in AnaCredit.
4.6.5.2 Serviced intracompany loans
Although for the vast majority of intracompany loans the institutional unit which
extends such loans is an observed agent whose activity as creditor is subject to
reporting pursuant to Article 4(1)(a)(i), the AnaCredit Regulation also requires
intracompany loans in which the observed agent acts only as servicer to be reported,
provided that the observed agent is resident in a reporting Member State.
In particular, intracompany loans where the observed agent, resident in a reporting
Member State, is a servicer (but not a creditor) fulfil the condition in Article
4(1)(a)(iv)(i).
Intracompany loans serviced by Intracompany loans are therefore subject to AnaCredit reporting not only in relation
non-resident observed agents are
to instruments serviced by resident observed agents but also in cases where they
subject to AnaCredit reporting
provided that the observed agent is
are held by non-resident observed agents, provided that the non-resident observed
the creditor
agent is the creditor of such instruments. Examples of such loans include deposits
placed with the domestic part by the foreign branch or loans between foreign
branches of the same legal entity.
4.6.6 The commencement of the reporting of an instrument
The following guidelines are considered when establishing the moment at which an
instrument becomes relevant for AnaCredit reporting.
Generally, an instrument first becomes subject to reporting at the moment at which
the creditor enables the debtor to draw funds after entering into a legally binding
agreement with the debtor, or when funds are disbursed to the debtor for the first
time in the case of overdrafts that are not associated with an agreed credit limit.
Moreover, whether the creditor makes a commitment to the debtor in irrevocable or
revocable15
terms is irrelevant for the moment of commencement of the reporting of
an instrument.
multi‑debtor/product
In the case of structured instruments under umbrellas, such
Revision mark: this section is
expanded in line with
instruments, irrespective of their structural complexity, become subject to reporting at
Q&A 2018/0010
the moment at which the creditor, at or after the moment of contractual inception and
after communicating and legally defining the commitment, creates an eligible
instrument giving the debtor the possibility of taking advantage of funds. This could,
for example, be a credit limit (regardless of whether it has been communicated to the
debtor) which has not resulted in the creation of an eligible instrument (e.g. a credit
card account or an overdraft). Clearly, such a commitment/offer will not result in any
reporting to AnaCredit until a standby instrument has been created which may be
utilised by the debtor solely at the debtor’s discretion. The same is true of conditional
lending agreements prior to the creation of an eligible instrument that is subject to
AnaCredit reporting (cf. Part III of the Manual, which deals specifically with
instruments arising under off-balance-sheet items).
For more information regarding the inception of reportable instruments, please refer
to Section 3.1.5 in Part II of the Manual.
4.6.7 Instruments related to deregistered counterparties
Revision mark: Section 4.6.7 is In accordance with Article 4 of the AnaCredit Regulation, the AnaCredit reporting of
added in line with Q&A 2017/0006
instruments does not depend on whether or not the related counterparties are
registered in a business register.
In particular, existing instruments of debtors which have ceased trading and have
been deregistered from the business register are still reported to AnaCredit after the
deregistration date of the debtor (provided that the instruments are subject to
15
Instruments giving rise to credit risk can generally be either irrevocable or revocable, based on
the following definitions:
• “irrevocable” refers to any instrument where the credit institution confirms to the debtor in
irrevocable and legally binding terms that it is prepared to make available a certain amount
(credit limit) during a predefined period of time, subject to certain terms and conditions stipulated
in the credit contract;
• “revocable” refers to any instrument (documented in a credit agreement) which can be
cancelled or drawing requests refused at any time at the sole discretion of the credit institution,
and which the credit institution has no legal obligation to renew beyond its original tenor.
Please note that the “irrevocable” effect is reflected to the extent that, once the debtor complies
with the terms and conditions (including loan default clauses and conditions precedent), the
credit institution has no legal right to unilaterally refuse any drawing and/or demand any
prepayment and/or cancel the facility until the (legally binding) contract underpinning the
instrument has expired.
AnaCredit reporting at a reporting reference date in accordance with the AnaCredit
Regulation).
The existence of such instruments is often a result of the legal process of liquidating
a company, which is complicated and may last for many years, and there may be
conflicting views about whether or not a counterparty has ceased to exist. In such
cases, there is a possibility to centrally consolidate the different views of different
RIAD)16,
reporting agents (via the Register of Institutions and Affiliates Data –
whereas AnaCredit holds information about such debtors’ current exposures (which
may be of particular relevance in the context of non-performing loans).
16
The ECB maintains the Register of Institutions and Affiliates Data (RIAD). RIAD is the shared
dataset of reference data on legal and other statistical institutional units, the collection of which
supports business processes across the Eurosystem and the performance of the tasks of the
ESCB and the SSM. RIAD facilitates the integration of a variety of datasets, in particular by
providing common identifiers.
5 Criteria triggering the reporting
obligation
Revision mark: Section 5 is This section provides a technical explanation of the criteria triggering the reporting
streamlined and modified in line
obligation of instruments to AnaCredit.
with the explanations provided in
Q&A 2017/0002 and
Q&A 2017/0003 regarding written-
For any observed agent of a given reporting agent, the instrument is the centrepiece
off instruments
of the reporting obligation in the sense that once an instrument held or serviced by
the observed agent is determined to be subject to reporting pursuant to the
AnaCredit Regulation, the reporting agent is required to report a set of information on
the following:
(a) the instrument;
(b) the protection securing the instrument;
(c) counterparties to the instrument or otherwise affiliated with the
instrument.
The provisions in Articles 4 and 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation are the basis for
determining whether or not a given instrument held or serviced by an observed agent
is required to be reported. Credit granted to natural persons is not reported to
AnaCredit.
5.1 Terminology
Revision mark: the terminology “Month-end” refers to the last calendar day of a month.
throughout this section is aligned
with the glossary
“Quarter-end” refers to the last calendar day of a quarter of the year.
“Eligible instrument” refers to an instrument that at a month-end date jointly meets all
of the following conditions:
(i) the instrument is one of the types of instrument under Article 1(23);
(ii) the instrument satisfies any of the conditions of Article 4(1)(a)(i)-(iv);
(iii) at least one debtor of the instrument is a legal entity or part of a legal entity
as referred to in Article 1(5).
“Commitment amount for an instrument” is defined as the sum of the outstanding
nominal amount and off-balance-sheet amount under Article 1(25), where both
amounts relate to the instrument concerned.
“Qualifying instrument” refers to an eligible instrument at a month-end date where
the debtor’s commitment amount for all the eligible instruments is equal to or
exceeds €25,000 or the equivalent foreign currency amount (cf. Article 5).
“Debtor’s commitment amount” refers to the sum of the commitment amounts of the
debtor for all eligible instruments vis-à-vis the observed agent. Only eligible
instruments are considered.
Revision mark: the definitions of “Reporting reference date” is the month-end date of the month to which the data
“reporting reference date” and
refers.
“extended quarter-end reporting”
are included
“Extended quarter-end reporting” is reporting until the quarter-end of eligible
instruments that have been written off during the quarter.
5.2 Criteria triggering reporting as of a reporting reference
date
Revision mark: this section is Reporting agents are required to report to the relevant NCB a certain set of
modified in line with
information valid as of a given reporting reference date and relating to the
Q&A 2017/0002
instruments held or serviced by their observed agents.
In relation to a specific observed agent, the reporting obligation is triggered for a
given reporting reference date if the instrument held or serviced by the observed
agent is a qualifying instrument on the reporting reference date.
Revision mark: this paragraph and Qualifying instruments are in principle subject to AnaCredit reporting only if they are
the corresponding chart are
held or serviced by the observed agent. However, an exception exists regarding
modified to clarify that instruments
are reported until at least the end of
instruments that incur a write-off. More specifically, instruments that incur a write-off
the quarter in which the debtor’s
are reported until at least the end of the quarter in which the write-off occurs – i.e.
commitment amount falls below the
reporting threshold of €25,000
extended quarter-end reporting applies.
Consequently, to establish whether an instrument is required to be reported for a
given reporting reference date, the reporting agent needs to verify whether it is a
qualifying instrument at the reporting reference date or if extended quarter-end
reporting applies vis-à-vis the instrument. Chart 10 illustrates the decision flow.
Chart 10: Establishing whether an instrument is required to be reported as of a
reporting reference date
To establish whether a (written-off) instrument is required to be reported as of a
reporting reference date:
•
The reporting agent checks whether the instrument is a qualifying instrument, i.e. it
fulfils the respective conditions of Articles 4 and 5 for the corresponding month-end
1
date.
•
If the instrument fulfils the respective conditions on the reporting reference date
(qualifying instrument), then the instrument is required to be reported as of the
reporting reference date.
•
If the instrument does not meet the respective conditions, the reporting agent
2
checks whether the instrument is subject to extended quarter-end reporting.
•
If extended quarter-end reporting applies, the instrument is reported as of the
reporting reference date
•
Otherwise, the instrument is not required to be reported as of the reporting
reference date.
1
Is
the instrument a qualifying
Instrument as of the
instrument as of the reporting
Yes
reporting reference date
reference
date?
No
2
Does
extended quarter-end
Yes
reporting apply?
No
Reporting not required as Reporting required as of
of the reporting reference the reporting reference
date date
Revision mark: considerations
regarding the reporting period are
replaced with explanations
regarding extended quarter-end
reporting in Section 5.2.2
5.2.1 Verifying whether the instrument qualifies as of the month-end
The instrument fulfils the conditions of Articles 1, 4 and 5 and is a qualifying
instrument at a month-end date if:
(a) it is an eligible instrument;
(b) the debtor’s commitment amount vis-à-vis the observed agent reaches or
exceeds a total of €25,000, or the equivalent foreign currency amount.
Verification of whether these conditions are fulfilled is to be carried out vis-à-vis the
observed agent.
Chart 11 presents the verification of whether or not an instrument qualifies as of
month-end.
1
Chart 11: Verification whether an instrument qualifies as of a month-end
For a month-end date, it is verified whether the instrument fulfils the eligibility conditions
and whether the reporting threshold is exceeded. If the instrument fails to meet either of
the two requirements the instrument does not qualify as of the month-end date
concerned.
1
Instrument
2
Does it fulfil the
eligibility conditions
No
in Art. 1(9), 1(23) and
Art. 4(1)?
h n o
t Month-end
Yes
3
Is the reporting
threshold referred to No
in Article 5 met?
Yes
Instrument
does not
Instrument qualifies
qualify
as of month-end
as of month-end
2 3
Please note that while condition applies at the instrument level, condition refers to
a debtor’s commitment amount calculated using all eligible instruments of the debtor
vis-à-vis the observed agent.
2 3
The verification in fact comprises two checks of the eligibility conditions and the
debtor’s commitment amount conditions. These checks are discussed in more detail
in the following sections.
5.2.1.1 Eligible instruments
If the instrument fulfils the conditions of Article 1(23) and Article 4(1) on a given
month-end date within the reference period, the instrument is deemed to be eligible
as of the month-end date concerned.
More specifically, an instrument held or serviced by the observed agent is eligible at
month-end if all of the following conditions are fulfilled as of the month-end date:
(a) the instrument is of one of the types of instrument under Article 1(23) of
the AnaCredit Regulation;
(b) the instrument satisfies any of the conditions of Article 4(1)(a)(i)-(iv) of the
AnaCredit Regulation;
(c) in accordance with Article 4(1)(b) of the AnaCredit Regulation, at least
one debtor of the instrument is a legal entity or part of a legal entity as
defined in Article 1(5) of the AnaCredit Regulation.
Verification of whether these conditions are fulfilled is to be carried out vis-à-vis the
observed agent.
Chart 12 illustrates the verification process to determine whether or not an
instrument is eligible. All information to be used in the process is valid as of the same
month-end.
2
Chart 12: Eligibility check – is the instrument eligible as of a month-end
For a month-end date within the reference period, it should be verified whether the
instrument fulfils the eligibility conditions referred to in Article 1(23) and Article 4(1).
2
Instrument
A
Is it a type of
instrument referred No
to in Art.1(23)?
Yes
B
Does it meet any of
ht n o
No Month-end
the conditions in Art.
4(1)a(i)-(iv)?
Yes
C
Does it meet the
debtor condition?
No
Art.4(1)(b)
Yes
Not eligible
Eligible instrument
instrument
Article 1(23) establishes that the types of instrument held or serviced this paragraph is
Condition A: Revision mark:
expanded with clarifications
by the observed agent that are considered in the context of AnaCredit reporting are
regarding the types of instrument
only the items specified in the data attribute “type of instrument”, as defined in Annex
IV of AnaCredit Regulation. These types of instrument are:
•
reverse repurchase agreements;
•
deposits other than reverse repurchase agreements;
•
overdraft;
•
credit card debt;
•
revolving credit other than overdrafts and credit card debt;
•
credit lines other than revolving credit;
•
trade receivables;
•
financial leases;
•
other loans.
The types of instrument are
The types of instrument are discussed in more detail in Section 3.4.1 in Part II of the
discussed in more detail in Part II of
the Manual, which covers the
Manual, which deals specifically with instruments covered in AnaCredit. The general
instrument dataset including the
rule is that only instruments of the types of instrument listed above fall within the
attribute “type of instrument”
scope of AnaCredit, while any other instruments, such as bonds or guarantees
given, are not subject to reporting. In particular, the type of instrument takes
precedence over the accounting classification or other features of credit when it
comes to determining the scope of reporting.
Condition B: An instrument held or serviced by the observed agent that is one of
the types of instrument listed above is considered in the context of AnaCredit
reporting provided that it fulfils any of the four conditions referred to in Article 4(1)(a).
The conditions are that the instrument:
(a) gives rise to credit risk for the observed agent, or
(b) is an asset of the observed agent, or
(c) is recognised under the relevant accounting standard used by the
observed agent’s legal entity and gave rise to credit risk for the observed
agent in the past, or
(d) is serviced by the observed agent resident in a reporting Member State
and
(i) was granted to other institutional units of the same legal entity that
the observed agent is part of, or
(ii) is held by a legal entity which is not a credit institution resident in a
reporting Member State different to the observed agent.
Condition C: Pursuant to Article 4(1)(b) of the AnaCredit Regulation, an instrument
held or serviced by the observed agent is only considered if at least one debtor of
the instrument is a legal entity or part of a legal entity as defined in Article 1(5).
Revision mark: this paragraph is Otherwise, if the only debtor (or all debtors if there are more than one) of the
streamlined and rearranged
instrument is a natural person, then the instrument is not eligible in the context of
AnaCredit reporting.
The conditions are discussed in more detail in Chapter 4 which addresses topics
such as held instruments, serviced instruments, loans between parent and
subsidiaries, loans between institutional units (intracompany loans) and off-balance-
sheet instruments.
The following examples provide an illustration of how condition C is applied.
Example 9: Loan granted to an investment fund
A loan held by the observed agent, classed as “other loans” according to the type of
instrument under Article 1(23) and granted to an investment fund fulfils condition C
above. The investment fund is a debtor of the loan.
Example 10: Credit card debt granted to a natural person
A credit card debt granted by the observed agent, classified as “credit card debt”
according to the type of instrument under Article 1(23) and granted to a natural person
does not to fulfil condition C above.
Example 11: Revolving credit granted to a partnership
A revolving credit granted by the observed agent, classified as “revolving credit other
than overdrafts and credit card debt” according to the type of instrument under Article
1(23) and granted to a partnership is deemed to fulfil condition C above.
The partnership is set up by a deed of partnership, which sets out the legal relationship
between partners (how profits will be shared out, responsibilities of partners, etc.). The
partners have unlimited liability, i.e. they are jointly and severely responsible for the
debts of their partnership. The partnership is a legal entity as defined in Article 1(5) of
the AnaCredit Regulation.
Example 12: Loan granted to a natural person and a company
A mortgage loan granted by the observed agent, classified as “other loans” according to
the type of instrument under Article 1(23) and granted to a natural person and a private
company, which are jointly liable for the debt, is deemed to fulfil condition C above.
A mechanical application of the eligibility checks is illustrated in Example 13 for a
number of banking products held or serviced by an observed agent.
Example 13: Application of the eligibility checks
The example illustrates the applicability of the eligibility checks as of a month-end date.
The application of these checks results in an instrument being classed as either eligible
or not eligible. The banking products are first classified according to the appropriate
type of instrument, if any. Conditions A, B and C are then checked one by one. Finally,
the instruments are classified as either eligible or not eligible based on the outcome of
these checks.
Note that this is only an illustration and not all banking products mentioned below
necessarily share these properties and some products may have both legal entities and
natural persons as debtors.
A B C
Is it one of the Are any of the Is any debtor a
types of conditions of legal entity
Case instrument under Article 4(1)(a)(i)-(iv) under
ID Banking product Article 1(23)? met? Article 1(5)? Outcome
Advance payment
1 No Yes Yes Not eligible
guarantee
2 Working capital credit Yes Yes Yes Eligible
Letter of credit
3 No Yes Yes Not eligible
confirmation
Term loan Yes Yes No Not eligible
4
Financial lease Yes Yes Yes Eligible
5
6 Business credit card Yes Yes Yes Eligible
7 OTC derivatives No Yes Yes Not eligible
8 Project finance Yes Yes Yes Eligible
9 Defaulted loan Yes Yes Yes Eligible
Mortgage loan Yes Yes Yes Eligible
10
Retail credit (revolving) Yes Yes No Not eligible
11
Retail credit (non-
12 Yes Yes Yes Eligible
revolving)
For a given banking product, the type of instrument is determined based on the
definitions provided in Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation in the data attribute “type
of instrument”, to which Article 1(23) refers. In fact, the type of instrument is actually
determined on the basis of a number of features (laid down in the definitions of the
individual types of instrument) which go beyond the brief description provided here for
illustrative purposes.
Please note that for some banking products which are held or serviced by banks, there
may not be an appropriate type of instrument because it may not be covered by the
scope of the collection as laid down in the AnaCredit Regulation. For example, a
financial guarantee given by a bank does not have a corresponding type of instrument
IV.17
in Annex
If any of the three eligibility conditions is not fulfilled, the instrument held or serviced by
the bank is not eligible. For example:
•
a financial guarantee (Case 1) is not eligible because it does not correspond to any
of the type of instrument laid down in Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation;
•
a term loan (Case 4) may not be eligible if the only debtor of the loan is a natural
person;
•
an over-the-counter (OTC) derivative (Case 7) is not eligible because it does not
correspond to any of the typed of instrument laid down in Annex IV.
Please note that whether or not a particular condition is fulfilled depends on a number of
other features which are not necessarily mentioned in this description.
Having established whether or not an instrument is eligible, the debtor’s commitment
amount vis-à-vis the observed agent is considered.
5.2.1.2 Debtor’s commitment amount vis-à-vis the observed agent
The reporting agent verifies as of month-end whether the sum of all eligible
instruments of a debtor, held or serviced by the observed agent, reaches or exceeds
the reporting threshold as defined in Article 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation.
The verification is to be carried out vis-à-vis the observed agent. All information to be
Only instruments vis-à-vis the
observed agent, all data as of the
used in the verification is as of a month-end date.
same month-end date
The verification is carried out for instruments that fulfil the conditions laid down in
Article 1(23) and Article 4(1) of the AnaCredit Regulation, i.e. eligible instruments and
only for such instruments. The eligibility of instruments is explained in Section 5.2.1.1.
17
However, financial guarantees are subject to reporting in the protection received and
instrument-protection received datasets if they serve as protection to any instrument that is
reported to AnaCredit.
The reporting threshold referred to in Article 5 is defined at debtor level. Therefore, in
order to verify whether the threshold is reached in relation to a debtor, the debtor’s
commitment amount is calculated. All eligible instruments of the debtor are
considered in the calculation. If the debtor’s commitment amount reaches or exceeds
the reporting threshold, the reporting threshold is deemed to be met for all eligible
instruments of the debtor.
The steps of the verification are depicted in Chart 13.
3
Chart 13: Verification of whether the reporting threshold is reached
For each month-end, it is verified whether the instrument fulfils the eligibility conditions
referred to in Article 1(23) and Article 4(1).
3
Debtors of the eligible
Eligible instrument
instrument
For each debtor, the
debtor’s commitment All eligible
amount for all the instruments of these
debtor’s eligible debtors
instruments
h n o
t Month-end
Is the debtor’s
commitment amount of
any of the debtors ≥
EUR 25,000?
Yes No
The reporting The reporting
threshold regarding all threshold regarding all
eligible instruments is eligible instruments is
met not met
Pursuant to Article 1(25), the commitment amount for an eligible instrument is Revision mark: the subsequent
paragraphs are adjusted to align
defined as the sum of the outstanding nominal amount and off-balance-sheet
with the terminology introduced and
further clarifications are added
amount, where both amounts relate to the eligible instrument concerned.
The debtor’s commitment amount is calculated as the sum of the commitment The debtor’s commitment amount is
calculated as the sum of the
amounts for all eligible instruments (and only such instruments) of the debtor held or
commitment amounts for all eligible
instruments of the debtor vis-à-vis
serviced by the observed agent.
the observed agent
Please refer to Section 4.6.3 for details regarding the off-balance sheet amount of
instruments under a credit cross limit (e.g. multi-product credit facilities).
Any eligible instrument vis-à-vis another observed agent (related to the same
reporting agent) is irrelevant for the calculation of the debtor’s commitment amount.
For a given debtor, if the debtor’s commitment amount (vis-à-vis the observed agent)
reaches or exceeds the reporting threshold of €25,000, then all eligible instruments
(held or serviced by the observed agent) in which the debtor is involved are
qualifying instruments.
The starting point for the verification is the eligible instrument. Based on the eligible
instrument, debtors of the instrument are identified. There are two possibilities:
1. there is only one debtor of the eligible instrument in question;
2. there are two or more debtors of the eligible instrument in question.
Revision mark: the following In the first case where there is only one debtor involved, it is necessary to identify all
example has been enhanced with
other eligible instruments held or serviced by the observed agent in which the debtor
further clarifications
is also involved, irrespective of whether the debtor is the only debtor or there is a
plurality of debtors of any such instruments. This is illustrated in Example 14.
Example 14: Calculation of the debtor’s commitment amount
This example concerns the calculation of the debtor’s commitment amount in relation to
instruments other than instruments governed under a cross-limit.
As of a month-end, client A is the only debtor of the following four instruments held or
serviced by the observed agent. Client A has no other instruments vis-à-vis the
observed agent.
Eligible?
(i.e. meets conditions A, B Outstanding Off-balance Commitment
Instrument ID and C in Section 5.2.2.1) nominal amount sheet amount amount
Not eligible 0.00 100,000.00 100,000.00
Instrument 1
Instrument 2 Eligible 0.00 30,000.00 30,000.00
Instrument 3 Not eligible 5,000.00 45,000.00 50,000.00
Instrument 4 Eligible 12,000.00 0.00 12,000.00
Two of the instruments are deemed eligible, the other two instruments are deemed not
to be eligible.
To determine whether the reporting threshold referred to in Article 5 is reached or
exceeded, the debtor’s commitment amount is established by adding the commitment
amounts of the two eligible instruments.
The outstanding nominal amount and off-balance-sheet amount are added together for
each instrument separately. This sum is referred to as the commitment amount of the
instrument.
The debtor’s commitment amount in respect of all eligible instruments is established as
follows:
•
all eligible instruments in which the debtor is involved are identified; these are
Instruments 2 and 4;
•
the commitment amounts of the instruments identified as eligible in the previous
step are €30,000 for Instrument 2 and €12,000 for Instrument 4;
•
the two instruments that are not eligible are not considered in the calculation of the
debtor’s commitment amount vis-à-vis the observed agent;
•
the debtor’s commitment amount is determined to be €42,000 (€30,000 + €12,000),
as effectively only Instruments 2 and 4 are considered.
Since the debtor’s commitment amount exceeds the reporting threshold of €25,000,
Instruments 2 and 4 are qualifying instruments as of the month-end.
mark: further In the second case where there are multiple debtors of the eligible instrument, the
Revision
clarifications are added in these
debtor’s commitment amount is calculated separately for each debtor of the
paragraphs
instrument. The instrument’s commitment amount is to be included in the calculation
of each debtor’s commitment amount (i.e. no apportioning of the instrument’s
commitment amount is to be performed).
The conditions laid down in Article 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation are such that all
debtors of a multi-debtor eligible instrument are first identified. All other eligible
instruments held or serviced by the observed agent in which these debtors are also
involved are then identified for each debtor separately, irrespective of whether the
debtor is the only debtor or there is a plurality of debtors for any such instruments.
The reporting threshold condition for reporting a multi-debtor eligible instrument is
met if the debtor’s commitment amount exceeds €25,000 for at least one of these
debtors. Conversely, if the debtor’s commitment amount for all the debtor’s eligible
instruments does not reach or exceed €25,000 for any of the debtors, none of the
eligible instruments qualifies for reporting.
mark: clarification is Once a multi-debtor eligible instrument is subject to reporting (based on the debtor’s
Revision
added regarding the requirement to
commitment amount of at least one legal entity), all legal entities that are debtors of
report all legal entities related to a
reportable instrument
the instrument are reported to AnaCredit as debtors of the instrument independently
of their individual debtor’s commitment amounts. This is illustrated in Example 15.
Example 15: Commitment amount in the case of a multi-debtor situation
This example concerns the calculation of the debtor’s commitment amount in the case
of multi-debtor instruments, where the commitment of one of the debtors is below the
reporting threshold.
As of the month-end there is an Instrument 1 with two debtors: legal entity A and legal
entity B.
Legal entity A is a debtor of two eligible instruments vis-à-vis the observed agent:
Instrument 1 and Instrument 2. The commitment amount of Instrument 1 is €15,000 and
the commitment amount of Instrument 2 is €12,000. There are no other instruments of
the debtor vis-à-vis the observed agent.
Consequently, the debtor’s commitment amount of legal entity A exceeds €25,000.
This means that both eligible instruments (Instrument 1 and Instrument 2) of legal entity
A fall within the scope of AnaCredit and need to be reported.
With regard to legal entity B, the debtor has only one eligible instrument vis-à-vis the
observed agent, i.e. Instrument 1. The debtor’s commitment amount of legal entity B is
therefore €12,000 and does not exceed the reporting threshold of €25,000.
However, as Instrument 1 is subject to reporting (based on the debtor’s commitment of
legal entity A, legal entity B is required to be reported to AnaCredit in relation to this
instrument – in fact, both legal entity A and legal entity B are required to be reported in
the counterparty-instrument dataset as debtors to Instrument 1.
In addition, since both debtors are registered in the counterparty-instrument dataset, the
counterparty reference data is also reported for both legal entity A and legal entity B.
In the case of a plurality of debtors, In this connection, the actual amount up to which an individual debtor is liable in
the actual amount up to which an
respect of a given instrument is irrelevant given the definition of the debtor’s
individual debtor is liable in respect
of the eligible instrument is not
commitment amount in Article 5(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation, which refers to the
relevant when calculating the
sum of the commitment amounts (i.e. outstanding nominal amount plus off-balance-
debtor’s commitment amount
sheet amount) for all eligible instruments of the debtor rather than the sum of the
parts of the commitment amounts of the instruments for which the debtor is liable.
mark: further In other words, once an instrument is eligible, the commitment amount of that
Revision
clarifications regarding individual
instrument is considered in the calculation of the debtor’s commitment amount of
debtors of a qualifying instrument
are added in these paragraphs
each debtor, even if it is only partially jointly liable. If the debtor’s commitment
amount of at least one debtor is equal to or exceeds €25,000, the instrument
becomes a qualifying instrument and is consequently reported to AnaCredit.
However, any other eligible instruments of the debtors of a qualifying instrument
whose debtor’s commitment amount is lower than €25,000 do not meet the
conditions for being qualifying instruments. Such instruments are reported to
AnaCredit only if they also had at least one other debtor whose debtor’s commitment
amount is equal to or exceeds €25,000.
Example 16 illustrates the verification process in the case of a plurality of debtors.
mark: the following Please note that the threshold defined in Article 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation refers
Revision
example has been enhanced with
only to the debtor’s commitment amount; protection providers are reported
further clarifications
regardless of the protection value as there is no threshold for protection providers.
Example 16: Calculation of the debtor’s commitment amount in the case of a
plurality of debtors (joint liabilities)
As of a month-end, the observed agent holds or services the following six instruments.
The outstanding nominal amount and off-balance sheet amount are added together for
each instrument separately. The sum is referred to as the commitment amount.
Outstanding Off-balance sheet Commitment
Instrument ID Eligible? nominal amount amount amount
Instrument 5 Eligible 9,000.00 0.00 9,000.00
Instrument 6 Eligible 3,330.00 170.00 3,500.00
Eligible 10,000.00 5,000.00 15,000.00
Instrument 7
Eligible 5,000.00 0.00 5,000.00
Instrument 8
Instrument 9 Not eligible 12,000.00 3,000.00 15,000.00
Instrument 10 Not eligible 5,000.00 0.00 5,000.00
There are two counterparties, client B and client C, who are debtors of the instruments
included in the tables. The debtors have no other instruments vis-à-vis the observed
agent. The liabilities of the debtors are defined as shown in the following tables
(Instrument 5 is the only instrument in which client B and client C are debtors):
Debtor ID Instrument ID Debtor ID Instrument ID
Client B Instrument 5 Client C Instrument 5
Instrument 6 Instrument 8
Client B Client C
Client B Instrument 7 Client C Instrument 10
Client B Instrument 9
Client B is the only debtor of Instruments 6, 7 and 9 and is one of the debtors of
Instrument 5 (i.e. there is a plurality of debtors). Client C is the only debtor of
Instruments 8 and 10 and is one of the debtors of Instrument 5. There are no other
instruments vis-à-vis the observed agent in which these clients are debtors.
To determine whether the eligible instruments held or serviced by the observed agent
reach or exceed the threshold referred to in Article 5, the debtor’s commitment amount
is established for these instruments, taking into account that there are two debtors of
Instrument 5.
For client B, one of debtors of Instrument 5, the debtor’s commitment amount is
established as follows:
i. all eligible instruments in which client B is involved are identified (Instruments 5
to 7);
ii. the commitment amounts of the identified instruments are €9,000 for
Instrument 5, €3,500 for Instrument 6 and €15,000 for Instrument 7;
iii. Instrument 9 is not considered as it is not eligible;
iv. the debtor’s commitment amount for client B is determined to be €27,500
(€9,000 + €3,500 + €15,000).
For client C, the other debtor of Instrument 5, the debtor’s commitment amount is
established as follows:
i. all eligible instruments in which client C is involved are identified (Instruments 5
and 8);
ii. the commitment amounts of the identified instruments are €9,000 for
Instrument 5 and €5,000 for Instrument 8;
iii. Instrument 10 is not considered as it is not eligible;
iv. the debtor’s commitment amount for client C is determined to be €14,000
(€9,000 + €5,000).
Instrument 5 is therefore a qualifying instrument as of the month-end, as are
Instruments 6 and 7. In this case only client B’s commitment amount exceeds €25,000
and all instruments relating to client B are reported, including client C’s involvement in
Instrument 5.
However, Instrument 8 of client C (although it is an eligible instrument) is not a
qualifying instrument as of the month-end because the debtor’s commitment amount of
client C is lower than €25,000.
Please refer to Sections 6.1.1 and 6.1.3 in Part II of the Manual for more details on a
plurality of debtors.
Revision mark: former section on
written-off loans has been moved
down to Section 5.2.2
5.2.2 Verifying whether extended quarter-end reporting applies
Revision mark: this section is The use of the reference period in Article 5(1) of the AnaCredit Regulation implies
aligned with Q&A 2017/0002
that instruments are reported until at least the end of the quarter in which the
debtor’s commitment amount falls below the reporting threshold of €25,000. This
extended quarter-end reporting is of particular relevance for written-off instruments
and is aimed at capturing the total write-off amount via the accounting dataset as of
the quarter-end reporting reference date.
The use of the reference period when setting out the requirements in Articles 4 and 5
of the AnaCredit Regulation in combination with extended quarter-end reporting
ensures that each qualifying instrument that incurs a write-off is reported at least until
the end of the calendar quarter in which the debtor’s commitment amount falls below
the reporting threshold (as a result of the write-off).
By maintaining the reporting obligation for written-off instruments until the quarter-
end date, certain relevant information can be registered in AnaCredit which would
otherwise remain uncaptured. For example, the total write-off amount relating to the
instrument is captured in AnaCredit via the accounting dataset as of the quarter-end
reporting reference date.
5.2.2.1 Reporting reference date and quarter-end date
Revision mark: the subsequent More specifically, the reporting until the quarter-end concerns eligible instruments
paragraphs are added in line with
which incur a write-off. Otherwise, in cases where there is no write-off, if the debtor’s
Section 3.1.6.1 in Part II of the
Manual
commitment amount falls below the reporting threshold of €25,000, the instruments
are not subject to reporting after the drop in the debtor’s commitment amount.
With regard to instruments with a write-off, two cases emerge, generally depending
on whether or not the instrument is still held or serviced by the observed agent:
a) a written-off instrument is reported beyond the end of the quarter only if the
instrument is still held or serviced by the observed agent and the debtor’s
commitment amount is equal to or exceeds the reporting threshold of
€25,000 (i.e. when the debtor of the written-off instrument also has other
instruments vis-à-vis the observed agent and the instruments are subject to
reporting);
b) an instrument that is no longer held or serviced by the observed agent (for
example, when it is sold to another counterparty or debt forgiveness applies)
and in relation to which a write-off has taken place is reported only until the
end of the quarter in which the observed agent ceases to hold or service the
instrument.
Revision mark: the clarifications While determining whether extended quarter-end reporting applies for an instrument
about the reference period are
as of a given reporting reference date, it is necessary to first establish the quarter-
replaced with explanations about
quarter-end dates
end corresponding to the reporting reference date. For this purpose, the quarter-end
is the last calendar day of the quarter which includes the reporting reference date.
Example 17 illustrates how the quarter-end date is established for selected reporting
reference dates.
Example 17: Quarter-end for reporting reference date
The quarter-end for the reporting reference date 30 September 2018 is 30 September
2018;
•
This because 30 September 2018 is also the last day of the quarter that includes
the reporting reference date.
The quarter-end for the reporting reference date 31 October 2018 is
31 December 2018;
•
This is because 31 December 2018 is the last day of the quarter that includes the
reporting reference date.
5.2.2.2 Written-off loans
mark: this section A write-off is the full or partial write-down of the carrying amount of an instrument. In
Revision
includes the explanations provided
the case of a full write-off, the operation leads to the removal of the instrument from
in the former Section 5.2.2.2.1
the balance sheet. Instruments are often written off when no future economic benefit
is expected from them, for example when a loan is considered to be uncollectible,
even though the institution may retain the claim against the debtor.
Consequently, in the event of a write-off of an instrument in relation to which the
observed agent acts as creditor and which was an asset under the relevant
accounting standard, the instrument is removed from the balance sheet, but the
observed agent remains the creditor of the instrument for as long as it retains the
claim against the debtor (i.e. the loan is not forgiven).
Please note that in the context of AnaCredit the accumulated write-off amount of an
eligible instrument is not included in the calculation of the debtor’s commitment
amount. However, the accumulated write-off amount of an eligible instrument that is
fully or partially written-off is reported to AnaCredit, with the reporting obligation
being dependent on either the debtor’s commitment amount or the time when the
debtor’s commitment amount falls below the reporting threshold of €25,000 due to
the write-off.
More specifically, if the debtor’s commitment amount drops below the reporting
threshold of €25,000 as a result of a write-off (of one loan), the written-off loan is
reported until the end of the quarter in which the drop occurs. However, if the
debtor’s commitment amount continues to exceed the reporting threshold of €25,000
(despite the fact that a loan has been fully or partially written off), the written-off loan
is reported for as long as the instrument exists and the debtor’s commitment amount
continues to exceed the reporting threshold, including beyond the end of the quarter
in which the loan was written off). This is further illustrated in Example 18.
Example 18: General guidelines regarding reporting of written-off instruments to
AnaCredit
This example concerns an instrument in which the observed agent acts as creditor.
There is only one debtor, which is a legal entity. As of 31 March 2019, the instrument is
recognised under the relevant accounting standard and the outstanding nominal
amount is €1,000,000 (there is no off-balance-sheet amount). However, in the course of
April 2019, the creditor considers the instrument uncollectible and the instrument is
removed from the balance sheet in accordance with the applicable accounting standard.
Please note that the example focuses on determining whether or not the instrument is
subject to AnaCredit reporting at a month-end date, given a set of features related to
the instrument at that date, rather than on data attributes that are required to be
reported at the reference date. For this reason, features such as accumulated write-offs
and debtor’s commitment amount are shown in the subsequent tables, despite the fact
that they may not be required to be reported for a given reference date.
Based on the criteria triggering reporting, the instrument is subject to AnaCredit
reporting as of 31 March 2019.
Outstanding Commitment Is it reportable to
Month-end Instrument ID
nominal amount amount AnaCredit?
31/03/2019 Instrument 1 1,000,000.00 1,000,000.00 Yes
However, there are two possibilities with regard to subsequent reporting periods,
depending on whether or not the debtor has any other instruments vis-à-vis the
observed agent:
Scenario 1 – debtor has no other instruments
In accordance with the reference period, the instrument is reported until the end of the
quarter in which the debtor’s commitment amount fell below the reporting threshold of
€25,000 and is not reported thereafter.
Outstanding Debtor’s
nominal Accumulated commitment Is it reportable
Month-end Instrument ID amount write-offs amount to AnaCredit?
31/03/2019 Instrument 1 1,000,000.00 0.00 1,000,000.00 Yes
Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 0.00 Yes
30/04/2019
31/05/2019 Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 0.00 Yes
30/06/2019 Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 0.00 Yes
31/07/2019 Instrument 1 Not reported Not reported Not reported No
Scenario 2 – debtor has another instrument
The debtor also has another instrument with an outstanding nominal amount of
€500,000. The instrument is written off in July 2019.
Under these additional assumptions, the reporting obligation is as follows:
Outstanding Debtor’s Is it to be
nominal Accumulated commitment reported to
Month-end Instrument ID amount write-offs amount AnaCredit?
31/03/2019 Instrument 1 1,000,000.00 0.00 1,500,000.00 Yes
31/03/2019 Instrument 2 500,000.00 0.00 1,500,000.00 Yes
30/04/2019 Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 500,000.00 Yes
30/04/2019 Instrument 2 500,000.00 0.00 500,000.00 Yes
31/05/2019 Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 500,000.00 Yes
Instrument 2 500,000.00 0.00 500,000.00 Yes
31/05/2019
Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 500,000.00 Yes
30/06/2019
30/06/2019 Instrument 2 500,000.00 0.00 0.00 Yes
31/07/2019 Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 0.00 Yes
31/07/2019 Instrument 2 0.00 500,000.00 0.00 Yes
31/08/2019 Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 0.00 Yes
31/08/2019 Instrument 2 0.00 500,000.00 0.00 Yes
Instrument 1 0.00 1,000,000.00 0.00 Yes
30/09/2019
Instrument 2 0.00 500,000.00 0.00 Yes
30/09/2019
31/10/2019 Instrument 1 Not reported Not reported Not reported No
31/10/2019 Instrument 2 Not reported Not reported Not reported No
Both instruments are reported until the end of the quarter in which the debtor’s
commitment amount falls below €25,000, i.e. until 30 September 2019. The instruments
are not reported thereafter.
The reason why Instrument 1 is still reported beyond the end of the quarter in which the
instrument was written off is that the observed agent still acts as creditor of the
instrument and the debtor’s commitment amount exceeds the reporting threshold in the
reference period as defined in Article 4(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation.
If a written-off instrument ceases to exist vis-à-vis the observed agent after a write-
off (for instance due to debt forgiveness or due to a sale to a third party), the
instrument is not required to be reported beyond the end of the quarter in which it
ceases to exist, irrespective of whether or not there are other instruments of the
debtor (vis-à-vis the observed agent) reported to AnaCredit.
The reason why written-off instruments are subject to AnaCredit reporting is that the
credit institution holds the instrument and there is a counterparty (the debtor) which
has an obligation to pay and, as long as the write-off does not release the debtor
from the obligation, the credit institution is a creditor of the instrument and bears the
credit risk of the instrument.
5.2.3 Determining whether an instrument is required to be reported to
AnaCredit
Revision mark: this section is The explanations concerning the applicability of extended quarter-end reporting take
adjusted to align with
precedence over the general rules provided in Section 5.2.1.2 concerning the
Q&A 2017/0002
debtor’s commitment amount.
Once it has been established, for each month-end date within the reference period,
corresponding to a reporting reference date, whether an instrument qualifies as of
the month-end, the individual month-end results are considered jointly to determine
whether the instrument is required to be reported to AnaCredit as of the reporting
reference date.
Revision mark: this paragraph is Furthermore, since the reference period referred to in Article 4 of the AnaCredit
expanded with explanations which
Regulation that corresponds to the reporting reference date always starts at the end of
link the reference period to the
reporting obligations relevant for
the quarter preceding the reporting reference date and continues until the reporting
written-off instruments
reference date, it follows, in accordance with Section 5.2.1, that written-off instruments
fulfilling the conditions of Article 4(1)(a)(i)-(iv) at or after the end of the preceding
quarter continue to be reported at the reporting reference dates in the current quarter,
even if the debtor’s commitment amount (of the debtor of the eligible instrument) does
not reach or exceed the reporting threshold at the reporting reference date.
Revision mark: the subsequent However, in cases where the debtor’s commitment amount falls below the reporting
examples are added following
threshold of €25,000 for reasons other than a write-off, the instruments are not
Q&A 2017/0002
subject to reporting after the drop in the debtor’s commitment amount.
For an illustration, please see the following examples.
Example 19: The reporting of a fully repaid instrument incurring no write-off
An instrument which is reported to AnaCredit for the reporting reference dates from
31 December to 28 February is fully repaid on 14 March.
The instrument does not incur any loss in the period concerned.
Consequently, the instrument is not reported to AnaCredit as of 31 March and the last
record available in AnaCredit relates to 28 February.
Furthermore, the last quarterly information available for the instrument goes back to
31 December.
Example 20: The reporting of partially repaid instruments incurring no write-off
A debtor has only one non-revolving instrument.
On 31 January the debtor’s commitment amount is €27,000 vis-à-vis the observed
agent and the instrument is reported to AnaCredit at the reporting reference date.
On 17 February, the debtor makes a payment (e.g. of €5,000), which results in the
debtor’s commitment amount falling below the reporting threshold. The debtor’s
commitment amount does not increase thereafter. In this case, the instrument is not
reported as of 28 February or as of 31 March.
Example 21: The reporting of partially securitised instruments
A debtor has only one instrument. As of 31 January the debtor’s commitment amount is
€40,000 vis-à-vis the observed agent and the instrument is reported to AnaCredit.
As of 14 February part of the instrument is subject to securitisation, in which €20,000 is
transferred in a true sale to a special purpose vehicle (SPV). The observed agent keeps
the servicing rights of the transferred part of the instrument.
In this case, the partial transfer does not reduce the outstanding nominal amount (see
Section 4.4.3 in Part II of the Manual) and the debtor’s commitment amount is still
€40,000, even after the transfer.
Consequently, the reporting of the instrument continues after the transfer date.
Example 22: The reporting of sold instruments incurring no write-off
A debtor has only one instrument.
As of 31 March the debtor’s commitment amount is €80,000 vis-à-vis the observed
agent and the instrument is reported to AnaCredit.
On 9 April the instrument is sold to a third party. The observed agent does not keep the
servicing rights of the sold instrument.
In this case, the observed agent neither holds nor services the instrument after the sale.
Furthermore, as the observed agent does not incur a loss that needs to be captured in
AnaCredit (i.e. no write-off), the observed agent does not report the instrument after the
sale (see Section 3.1.6 in Part II of the Manual).
Revision mark: the following Example 23 shows whether an instrument with no write-off is subject to reporting if
example (former Example 21) is
the debtor’s commitment amount falls below the reporting threshold of €25,000.
adjusted in line with
Q&A 2017/0002
Example 23: Determining whether an instrument with no write-off is subject to
reporting as of a reporting reference date
On 16 September 2018, the observed agent grants a credit, e.g. a term loan, to client D,
a legal entity, in the amount of €28,000, disbursed in full on that date.
The loan is a qualifying instrument. Client D has no other credit vis-à-vis the observed
agent.
On the 15th day of every month, client D repays €1,000. The relevant month-end data
for the loan are assumed to be as follows. In addition, it is verified whether the
instrument (which does not incur a write-off) is subject to AnaCredit reporting on the
reporting reference dates concerned.
Outstanding Debtor’s Is it to be
nominal Commitment commitment reported to
Month-end Credit amount amount amount AnaCredit?
Term loan 28,000.00 28,000.00 28,000.00 Yes
30/09/2018
Term loan 27,000.00 27,000.00 27,000.00 Yes
31/10/2018
30/11/2018 Term loan 26,000.00 26,000.00 26,000.00 Yes
31/12/2018 Term loan 25,000.00 25,000.00 25,000.00 Yes
31/01/2019 Term loan 24,000.00 24,000.00 24,000.00 No
28/02/2019 Term loan 23,000.00 23,000.00 23,000.00 No
31/03/2019 Term loan 22,000.00 22,000.00 22,000.00 No
Notably, since in cases where there is no write-off, if the debtor’s commitment amount
falls below the reporting threshold of €25,000, the instrument is not subject to reporting
after the drop in the debtor’s commitment amount (i.e. after 15 January 2019) and,
consequently, the instrument is reported to AnaCredit for the last time as of
31 December 2018.
The requirement to continue up to Extending the reporting of instruments to AnaCredit until the end of the current
the end of the quarter in which the
quarter is necessary in order to capture in AnaCredit instruments that change from
debtor’s total commitment amount
falls below €25,000 is necessary to
qualifying to not qualifying during the current quarter if an instrument is written off
ensure that information is available
and the debtor’s commitment amount falls below the reporting threshold of €25,000.
about the reason why a loan is no
longer reported in AnaCredit
The requirement to continue until the end of the quarter in which the debtor’s total
commitment amount falls below €25,000 is necessary to ensure that information
mark: this paragraph is
Revision
expanded with explanations that
about the write-off is available in AnaCredit via the accounting dataset which is
extended quarter-end reporting
reported on a quarterly basis. Instruments for which the debtor’s commitment
does not apply to instruments that
do not incur a write-off
amount falls below the reporting threshold of €25,000 but for which no write-off has
occurred need not be reported in the extended period.
No retroactive reporting of The fact that an instrument which was not required to be reported as of a previous
instruments not required earlier
reporting reference date is required to be reported as of a subsequent reporting
reference date does not imply that the instrument needs to be reported retroactively
as of the previous reference date. The respective reporting obligations are illustrated
in Example 24.
Example 24: No retroactive reporting of instruments not required earlier
Example 23 above is modified as follows:
On 16 May 2019, the observed agent grants to client D another credit, a balloon loan, in
the amount of €20,000, disbursed in full on that date.
The type of instrument of this credit is deemed to be “other loans”. No repayment of the
credit is agreed before 30 June 2019.
The month-end data of Client D vis-à-vis the observed agent are assumed to be as
follows:
Outstanding Debtor’s Is it to be
nominal Commitment commitment reported to
Month-end Credit amount amount amount AnaCredit?
30/04/2019 Term loan 21,000.00 21,000.00 21,000.00 No
31/05/2019 Term loan 20,000.00 20,000.00 40,000.00 Yes
31/05/2019 Balloon loan 20,000.00 20,000.00 40,000.00 Yes
Term loan 19,000.00 19,000.00 39,000.00 Yes
30/06/2019
30/06/2019 Balloon loan 20,000.00 20,000.00 39,000.00 Yes
As concluded before, the term loan is not required to be reported as of 30 April 2019.
As of 31 May 2019, however, with the addition of the new credit instrument, which
raises the debtor’s commitment amount above the reporting threshold of €25,000, both
the term loan and the balloon loan are required to be reported.
Similarly, both credit instruments are required to be reported as of 30 June 2019.
In no way does the reporting obligation as of 31 May and 30 June trigger any retroactive
reporting of the term loan as of 30 April 2019.
6 Concept of credit, data model and
reportable datasets
This chapter addresses the concept of credit which is modelled by distinguishing
between three main building blocks: instrument, protection and counterparty.
The concept of credit is not just a data model but a whole conceptual model
describing how a credit is conceived for the purpose of AnaCredit.
After introducing the concept of credit, the chapter discusses how the concept of
credit is translated into reportable datasets and looks at the mutual relationships
between the reportable datasets. The description is threefold: first the conceptual
data model is discussed, then the logical data model is described, and finally the
specific datasets are explained on the basis of the data model.
6.1 Conceptual data model
The concept of credit is not just a Conceptually, the AnaCredit data model recognises three interconnected data
data model but a whole conceptual
entities (i.e. groups of data) related to a credit (e.g. a loan) which differ with regard to
model on how a credit is conceived
for the purpose of AnaCredit
the data that need to be reported. These data entities are the instrument entity of the
credit, the protection entity of the credit and the counterparty entity of the credit.
Revision mark: the term “(data)
entity” is added and used
interchangeably with “part”
throughout this section
6.1.1 Concept of credit in the context of AnaCredit
Granular reporting to AnaCredit means that data are compiled and reported on the
basis of an individual credit, whereby three interrelated data entities (i.e. parts of
data on the credit) are distinguished.
In fact, the AnaCredit requirements are set out on the basis of an abstract model
which, at any given moment in time, represents a running credit instrument extended
on the basis of a contract.
Specifically, for the purpose of AnaCredit each instrument is assumed to be set up or
established on the basis of a contract (commonly referred to as a loan agreement).
This basis is reflected in Articles 1(22) and (23) of the AnaCredit Regulation, where
contract and instrument are defined. In fact, instruments are defined as specific
types of credit granted under a contract.
The abstract model underlying the AnaCredit data model has been chosen to
broadly reflect the general information describing credit transactions. Contracts (loan
or factoring agreements, for example) typically provide the terms and conditions
under which a creditor provides credit to a debtor, specifying for instance the amount
of the credit, the interest charged, the repayment schedule, the conditions of the
credit and the representations, warranties and covenants of each party, as well as
taking into account the possibility that the features may change from one moment to
the next.
Revision mark: references to Generally, the AnaCredit reporting requirements involve only three data entities (i.e.
“contract” are added to emphasise
parts of data) which are deemed to be the main pillars of any credit granted under a
that instruments are created by
contracts
contract. These parts are:
(a) the instrument (extended on the basis of a contract) that represents the
individual credit;
(b) the protection that secures the instrument;
(c) the counterparties that are related to or otherwise affiliated with the
instrument and the protection.
This means that AnaCredit requires granular information about contracts on an
instrument-by-instrument (commonly referred to as loan-by-loan) basis. Furthermore,
as each of the above-mentioned parts is characterised by a number of features, the
requirements of AnaCredit consist of a number of data attributes that capture certain
features of the specific parts of a credit arising under a contract (cf. Section 6.2.2 for
more details on data attributes). In fact, once a credit granted by a credit institution is
subject to reporting pursuant to the AnaCredit Regulation, 88 data attributes (i.e.
individual characteristics of the credit) are in principle required to be reported.
Revision marks: further Although from an IT perspective a credit (loan) is merely broken down into the three
clarifications are added in this
interconnected data entities (instruments, protection items and counterparties), in
paragraph
general terms this concept of credit has fundamental implications for how real-life
credit is considered for the purpose of AnaCredit. More specifically, this concept of
credit implies that the instrument entity of a credit is kept separate from the
protection entity, which is of particular relevance for products that contain embedded
protection (cf. Example 25 below and Section 3.4.1 in Part II of the Manual regarding
the instrument type “reverse repurchase agreements”). Although these products are
not commonly referred to as secured loans, the different data to be reported to
AnaCredit are in fact, under this basic premise, broken down into an instrument
entity (i.e. a set of data attributes with the specific information on the instrument) and
a protection received “entity” (i.e. a set of data attributes with the specific information
on the protection received). Moreover, information about who is involved in the credit
is placed outside the instrument/protection bracket. Counterparties are explicitly
distinguished from one another and clearly identified in relation to the instrument or
the protection.
Example 25: Reverse repurchase agreements – perspective of the buyer
Reverse repurchase agreements (reverse repos) are transactions in which an institution
lends cash in exchange for financial assets sold by the owner of the financial assets at
a given price under a commitment by the owner of the financial assets to repurchase
the same (or identical) assets at a fixed price on a specified future date.
Broadly speaking, a reverse repurchase agreement is a transaction concluded on the
deal date between two parties, the institution and the owner of the financial assets, in
which:
•
the owner of the financial assets sells a specified financial asset to the institution at
an agreed price on date T1;
•
the owner will repurchase the same (or identical) financial assets from the
institution at a price agreed on the deal date on date T2 (after T1).
Reverse repurchase agreement for the institution buying financial assets
Date T1
Financial assets
Financial asset
Institution
owner
Cash
Date T2
Financial assets
Financial asset
Institution
owner
Cash + repo interest
While the mechanics of a reverse repo involve selling and then repurchasing securities
at a set price and a set time, at its financial essence, a reverse repo is in essence a
collateralised loan.
Using this broader concept of credit, a reverse repo transaction is broken down into the
three pillars – the instrument part, the protection part and the counterparty part. In this
example, the instrument is the cash loaned out to the owner of the financial asset, while
the financial asset, which in essence collateralises the instrument, is the protection item,
and the counterparty part comprises the institution (the creditor) and the owner of the
financial asset (the debtor), which by providing the financial asset as implicit protection
to the creditor also functions as the protection provider.
Although a (reverse) repo transaction (where the financial asset is sold and later
repurchased) is conceptually modelled in exactly the same way as a collateralised loan
(where the financial asset is instead pledged as collateral for a loan), the two types of
transaction can be clearly distinguished through the information contained in AnaCredit
(more specifically, by the type of instrument).
In practice, the granular reporting of credit means that for each credit granted by
credit institutions, AnaCredit broadly requires instrument, protection and
debtor/creditor information. Please refer to Section 6.3 for more details on the data
elements that are required.
Using data modelling terminology, a credit is modelled as a collection of data entities
and relationships among data entities. In particular, the three parts of a credit are an
information triple that characterises the credit.
Revision mark: this paragraph is In the conceptual data model of credit, the distinct parts into which the data are
expanded with further clarifications
grouped on the basis of their nature are referred to as data “entities”. Consequently,
about “(data) entities”
a data entity is a group of data that is distinguishable from other groups of data
relating to the credit. The three data entities of the AnaCredit data model are:
(a) the instrument entity;
(b) the protection entity;
(c) the counterparty entity.
A brief description of these credit data entities is presented below. More details,
including the data attributes, are provided in the subsequent sections and in Part II of
the Manual.
6.1.2 Instrument
The instrument entity is at the heart of a credit. This data entity contains the
information about the individual credit, i.e. individual commitments with unique terms
under a credit agreement such as product type, maturity date, interest rate, etc.
Instruments arise under a contract, and for each instrument there is always a debtor,
a creditor and a servicer. Several instruments may be part of the same contract.
When defining a data model to capture instruments, it should be taken into account
that there may be multiple debtors of the same instrument. This implies that such
instruments theoretically function as the instrument entity in multiple triples (of
instrument, protection and counterparty). The same instrument would therefore
appear in several triples, with each instrument entity relating to a different debtor.
This implies that part of (or all) of the information relating to the instrument provided
in each entry could be specific to the participation of the debtor in that instrument
debtors.18
and not common across Generally, the data model is designed so that
there is no duplication of reportable information – part of the information would be
common across the debtors (in the instrument dataset) and another part of it specific
to the participation of the debtor (in the counterparty-instrument dataset). Please
refer to Section 6.2 for details regarding how the information is effectively organised
in the context of AnaCredit.
In the context of AnaCredit, instruments are reported gross of any protection
securing the instrument.
18
Entry-specific information refers to the three positions in a triple set (instrument, protection item,
counterparty) that describes a given credit transaction. This means that an instrument (or
protection item or counterparty) may occupy the position of the instrument entity (or protection
entity or counterparty entity) in multiple such triples referring to multiple credit transactions.
However, there is just one record for each instrument, protection item and counterparty. This is
because these records are the building blocks that may be combined via the identifiers to form
an unlimited number of such triple sets. Ultimately, the data model is designed so that there is no
duplication of reportable records.
6.1.3 Protection
If there is protection securing the instrument, this is captured in the separate
protection entity.
The protection entity contains the information about all protection items (i.e. valuable
assets or rights) that are committed to the fulfilment of the terms of an instrument
(i.e. that secure the payments under a credit transaction), as specified in the (credit)
contract that gives rise to the instrument. All protection items in the protection entity
have an instrument identifier such that the protection item can be linked to the
instrument it secures.
When defining the data model, the possibility that the same protection item may be
associated with several instruments is taken into account. This could imply that a
protection item appears in the protection entity multiple times in relation to different
instruments. The same protection item would therefore appear in several entries,
with the protection entity relating to a different instrument in each information triple
(of instrument, protection and counterparty). This nevertheless involves no repetition
of the protection information across different instruments (e.g. the allocated amount
specific to each instrument).
Protection always involves at least one counterparty – the protection provider. The
counterparty which grants the protection is identified and reported to AnaCredit (unless
it is a natural person). The counterparty is described in the counterparty entity.
In the context of AnaCredit, the protection value (and consequently also the allocated
protection value) is reported gross of any haircut (i.e. before any haircut is applied).
6.1.4 Counterparty
An instrument always involves counterparties. The counterparties are described in
the counterparty entity.
The counterparty entity contains information about counterparties related to the
instrument entity and, if relevant, to the protection entity. The counterparty entity also
contains information about certain counterparties affiliated with debtors and
protection providers of an instrument in the instrument entity.
In a similar way to the modelling of the instrument and protection entities, the
modelling of the counterparty entity takes into account the fact that the same
counterparty may relate to several instruments and protection items.
For the purpose of AnaCredit, all counterparties which take any of the following roles
are reflected in the counterparty entity:
1. the creditor of the instrument;
2. the originator of the instrument, if the instrument is a securitisation
transaction;
3. the servicer of the instrument;
4. the debtor of the instrument;
5. the protection provider that provides protection to the instrument (if any
protection item is provided);
fund19
6. the head office undertaking of (any foreign branch or a special that is)
a debtor of the instrument or a protection provider that provides protection to
the instrument;
7. the immediate parent undertaking of any debtor of the instrument, or of any
protection provider that provides protection to the instrument;
8. the ultimate parent undertaking of any debtor of the instrument, or of any
protection provider that provides protection to the instrument.
On any given date, a counterparty may assume one or more of these roles in relation
to one or more instruments. Similarly, a single role may be assumed by many
counterparties on any given date.
No natural persons in the If a natural person is a counterparty in any of the eight roles mentioned above, then
counterparty entity
this natural person is not registered in the counterparty entity, i.e. the counterparty
purposes.20
Revision mark: a further
does not exist in the counterparty entity for AnaCredit
explanation is added about the
treatment of natural persons under
AnaCredit
6.1.5 Conceptual representation – the observed agent’s perspective
Revision mark: this paragraph is Given the distinct data entities of a credit and taking the perspective of an observed
adjusted to align with the
agent, AnaCredit’s conceptual representation of credit consists of a set of fact
perspective taken in Chart 14
hierarchies21
schemata that basically model facts, measures, dimensions, and with
reference to credit vis-à-vis the credit institution.
The AnaCredit conceptual data model establishes a broad view of what should be
considered in the AnaCredit reporting, as the data model includes the distinct data
entities and the relationships between them. However, the conceptual data model
specifies neither data attributes nor primary keys. Yet, choosing a conceptual data
model means that dimensions, measures and the granularity of data have been
defined.
19
Please refer to Section 3.1 for details regarding special funds.
20
Reporting agents may use the same counterparty entity for managing the instruments as for
reporting to AnaCredit. In this case, the data on natural persons, although they are part of
counterparty data of the reporting agents, are not reported to AnaCredit.
21
In data modelling theory a “fact” is a concept that models a set of events (e.g. credit held or
serviced by a bank). In essence, a fact has dynamic properties or evolves in some way over
time. A “measure” is a numerical property of a fact and describes a quantitative fact aspect that
is relevant to analysis. For example, every credit is quantified at a given moment in time by its
nominal outstanding amount. A “qualitative dimension” (or data attribute) is a fact property with a
finite “domain” (i.e. a set of potential values) and describes an analysis coordinate of the fact.
The dimensions for the credit fact are type of credit, currency, dates, etc. Finally, “hierarchy”
determines how fact instances may be aggregated and selected, and determines the granularity
adopted for representing facts.
The AnaCredit conceptual data model from the observed agent’s perspective is
depicted in Chart 14. This means the observed agent is fixed and is not incorporated
into the chart.
« head office of (3)
« immediate parent of (2)
is part of »
Contract
« ultimate parent of (2)
services »
originates »
Counterparty Instrument
is creditor (1) »
is debtor »
«
secures
Value at »
« provides protection
Protection Reference date
Colours used in the diagram:
Symbols:
Main entities in the 0..1
Notes:
reporting and its relations
1
(1) The observed agent, when reported as creditor,
assumes the non-transferred risk. Any other creditor
0..n
E n t it i e s r e la t e d t o t h e reference
r e p o rt e d f o r a n i n s trument assumes the amount reported
1..n
d at e a n d it s r e la t io n s
a s t ra n s fe r r e d r i s k .
(2) Only applies to debtors and protection providers
Minimum and
(3) Only applies to foreign branches, being debtors or
maximum
protection providers
cardinality in
the relation
On any given reporting reference date (e.g. month-end):
•
the instrument entity;
•
the protection entity;
•
the counterparty entity
are distinguished for each and every credit held or serviced by an observed agent,
and there is a contract under which the instrument arises.
This means that on a given reporting reference date, a set of fact aspects referring to
the credit is distinguished for each data entity. For instance, there is always a
creditor, a debtor and a servicer related to the instrument, which may also be
secured by a protection item.
In more detail, and taking the perspective of an observed agent, the conceptual data
model implies that, for the purpose of AnaCredit reporting, the following applies on a
given reporting reference date:
•
a (credit) contract gives rise to one or more instruments;
•
an instrument is part of one contract;
•
an instrument has one or more creditors;
•
an instrument has one or more debtors;
•
an instrument has one or more servicers;
•
an instrument has zero (i.e. there are none), one or more originators;
•
an instrument is secured by zero (i.e. it is unsecured), one or more protection
items;
•
a protection item secures one or more instruments;
•
a protection item is provided by one or more counterparties;
•
a counterparty services zero (i.e. it is not a servicer of any), one or more
instruments;
•
a counterparty originates zero (i.e. it is not an originator of any), one or more
instruments;
•
a counterparty is a debtor of zero (i.e. it is not a debtor of any), one or more
instruments;
•
a counterparty is a creditor of zero (i.e. it is not a creditor of any), one or more
instruments;
•
a counterparty is a provider of zero (i.e. it is not a provider of any protection
item), one or more protection items;
•
a counterparty is the head office undertaking of zero (i.e. it is not the head office
undertaking of any), one or more counterparties;
•
a counterparty has zero (i.e. it does not have any) or one head office
undertaking;
•
a counterparty is the immediate parent undertaking of zero (i.e. it is not the
immediate parent undertaking of any), one or more counterparties;
•
a counterparty has zero (i.e. it does not have any) or one immediate parent
undertaking;
•
a counterparty is the ultimate parent undertaking of zero (i.e. it is not the
ultimate parent undertaking of any), one or more counterparties;
•
a counterparty has zero (i.e. it does not have any) or one ultimate parent
undertaking.
As regards the number of occurrences of the same piece of information, the
AnaCredit data model implies that on a given reporting reference date:
(i) an instrument has a single set of values describing it;
(ii) a protection item has a single set of values describing it;
(iii) a counterparty has a single set of values describing it.
In addition, on a given reporting reference date an observed agent holds or services
zero (i.e. it holds or services no instruments), one or more instruments.
The instrument entity is the centrepiece of the AnaCredit data model, which implies
that if the observed agent does not hold or service any instruments that are
reportable to AnaCredit then all the other data entities (i.e. the counterparty and
protection entities) become irrelevant.
Importantly, the relationships between the data entities distinguished in the
many-to-many.22
conceptual model are generally
This conceptual data model is used as the foundation for the AnaCredit logical data
model.
6.2 Logical data model – the reporting agent’s perspective
Revision mark: this paragraph is The logical data model contains more details than the AnaCredit conceptual data
enhanced with further clarifications
model. In particular, the logical data model:
•
includes all entity tables (i.e. distinct parts in which the data are grouped on the
basis of its nature) and relationships between them;
•
specifies data attributes (i.e. individual characteristics that describe the facts
recorded) for each data entity;
•
specifies a primary key for each data entity (i.e. one or a combination of
identifiers – identifying data attributes – that uniquely identifies a record in a
data entity);
•
specifies foreign keys (i.e. one or combination of identifiers – identifying data
attributes – which allow the relationship between different data entities to be
identified.
The logical data model also involves normalisation, which is the process of removing
redundancy in an entity table. Normalisation typically occurs by dividing an entity
table into two or more and defining relationships between the tables. Consequently,
22
A many-to-many relationship is a type of cardinality that refers to the relationship between two
entities A and B in which A may contain one record related to several records in B and vice
versa. For instance, an instrument is secured by many protection items and one protection item
secures many instruments.
the AnaCredit logical data model comprises more explicit data entities than the
conceptual data model. This is motivated by the replacement of any many-to-many
relationships23,
relationships in the conceptual model with one-to-many which is
achieved by introducing bridging tables.
The AnaCredit logical data model from the reporting agent’s perspective is depicted
in Chart 15 (as opposed to Chart 14 above, which shows the observed agent’s
perspective). This means that the observed agent is not fixed and is therefore
incorporated into the entity relationship diagram.
The reference date is fixed in the entity relationship diagram, meaning that all the
data therein are valid as of the reference date.
The AnaCredit logical data model is presented from the reporting agent’s perspective
because of the requirement (Point 1.2 of Annex I of the AnaCredit Regulation) to
uniquely identify the counterparty at the level of the reporting agent (see also the
definition of the counterparty identifier in Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation).
23
A one-to-many relationship exists when one instance in table A may be linked with many
instances in table B, but one instance in table B is linked to only one instance in table A. It is
important to note that a one-to-many relationship is not a property of the data, but rather of the
relationship itself.
Chart 15: AnaCredit logical data model – the reporting agent’s perspective
This entity relationship diagram is presented from the reporting agent’s perspective for a fixed reference date (thus not shown in the chart).
Instrument
PK Observed agent
PK Contract identifier
Reporting context PK Instrument identifier
Reference date
Type of instrument
Amortisation type
Currency
« ultimate parent of (2)
Fiduciary instrument
Inception date
« immediate parent of (2) End date of interest-only period
Interest rate cap
Counterparty-instrument
Interest rate floor
« head office of (2)(3)
Interest rate reset frequency
PK,FK2 Observed agent
Interest rate spread/margin
Counterparty reference data
PK,FK2 Contract identifier
Interest rate type
PKCounterparty identifier
Legal final maturity date
PK,FK2 Instrument identifier
Commitment amount at inception
PK,FK1 Counterparty identifier
Payment frequency
Legal Entity Identifier (LEI)
PK Counterparty role
Project finance loan
National identifier
Counterparty risk/default
Purpose
Head office undertaking identifier Recourse
Joint liability (1)
PK,FK1 Counterparty identifier
Reference rate
Immediate parent undertaking identifier
PK Observed agent
Settlement date
Ultimate parent undertaking identifier
Subordinated debt
Name
Protection Syndicated contract identifier
Probability of default
Repayment rights
Address: street
Default status of the counterparty PK Observed agent
Fair value changes due to changes in credit risk before purchase
Address: city/town/village
Date of the default status of the counterparty Interest rate
PK Protection identifier
Address: county/administrative division
Next interest rate reset date
Address: postal code Default status of the instrument
FK1Protection provider identifier (4)
Date of the default status of the instrument
Address: country
Type of protection
Transferred amount
Legal form
Arrears for the instrument
Protection value
Institutional sector
Date of past due for the instrument
Type of protection value
Type of securitisation
Economic activity
Protection valuation approach
Outstanding nominal amount
Status of legal proceedings
Real estate collateral location Accrued interest
Date of initiation of legal proceedings
Off-balance sheet amount
Date of protection value
Enterprise size Accounting classification of instruments
Maturity date of the protection
Balance sheet recognition
Date of enterprise size
Original protection value Accumulated write-offs
Number of employees
Accumulated impairment amount
Date of original protection value
Balance sheet total
Type of impairment
Impairment assessment method
Annual turnover
Sources of encumbrance
Accounting standard
Accumulated changes in fair value due to credit risk
Performing status of the instrument
Instrument-protection received
Date of the performing status of the instrument
Provisions associated with off-balance sheet exposures
PK,FK1,FK2 Observed agent
Status of forbearance and renegotiation
PK,FK1 Contract identifier
Date of the forbearance and renegotiation status
PK,FK1 Instrument identifier Cumulative recoveries since default
Prudential portfolio
PK,FK2 Protection identifier
Carrying amount
Protection allocated value
Third party priority claims against the protection
Symbols:
Notes:
0..1
(1) Joint liability attribute only applies for certain values of ‘counterparty role’ (debtor) in relation to a single instrument where there are two or more debtors
1
(2) Only applies to debtors and protection providers
0..n
(3) Only applies to foreign branches
1..n
(4) The counterparty identifier of the counterparty acting as protection provider
Minimum and maximum cardinality in
the relation
Each entity table consists of one or The logical data model comprises six entity tables. As explained in Section 6.3, each
more actual datasets – for instance,
of the entity tables comprises one or more actual datasets – for instance, the
the instrument entity table consists
of the instrument, financial and
instrument entity table consists of the instrument, financial and accounting datasets.
accounting datasets
To start with, a distinction is made between:
1. the instrument entity table;
2. the protection entity table;
3. the instrument-protection received entity table.
The instrument-protection received entity table bridges the instrument entity table
and the protection entity table, where the many-to-many relationships between the
instrument and protection entities in the conceptual data model are modelled with a
series of one-to-many relations.
The counterparty entity as referred to in the conceptual data model is also split into
two tables in the logical data model, namely:
4. the counterparty reference data entity table;
5. the counterparty risk/default entity table.
Finally, the counterparty entity and the instrument entity of the conceptual data
model are bridged by a series of one-to-many relationships, which is achieved by
incorporating the following into the logical data model:
6. the counterparty-instrument entity table.
Each of the six entity tables consists of records. A record is an individual row in one
table, uniquely identified by the data attributes marked as primary keys (PK).
The contract does not carry any In the logical data model, the contract (which is a separate data entity in the
data attributes that would describe
conceptual data model) is a primary key of the instrument and appears in all these
the contract separately
entity tables wherever the instrument occurs. Any relevant contract information is
captured at the level of the instrument, which is uniquely linked to a contract (for
example, the date on which the contract became binding for all parties).
6.2.1 Identifiers used across the entity tables
Revision mark: further In addition to the data attributes (that record features of the three data entities of
clarifications are added to this
credit), each entity table includes a number of internal identifiers. These identifiers
paragraph
are a key part of the data model and have no meaning outside of AnaCredit. They
ensure that each record or entry can be (uniquely) identified by one or a combination
of identifiers in an entity table. They help to maintain data integrity and to identify the
relationship between the datasets. These internal identifiers are:
1. observed agent identifier;
2. counterparty identifier;
3. contract identifier;
4. instrument identifier;
5. protection identifier;
6. protection provider identifier;
7. reporting agent identifier, which is redundant from the observed and
reporting agents’ perspectives.
6.2.1.1 Primary key for each entity table
Revision mark: further The logical data model specifies the primary key (abbreviated as PK in Chart 15) for
explanations regarding primary
each entity table.
keys are added in this section
The primary key is a combination of one or more identifiers that uniquely identifies
one occurrence in an entity table. The primary key is a combination of the identifiers
listed in Section 6.2.1.
From the reporting agent’s perspective, the following combinations of identifiers are
the primary key of the different entity tables:
1. instrument entity table:
•
observed agent identifier;
•
contract identifier;
•
instrument identifier.
2. instrument-protection received entity table:
•
observed agent identifier;
•
contract identifier;
•
instrument identifier;
•
protection identifier.
table:24
3. protection received entity
24
Please note that unless protection is granted by a natural person, each protection item reported
in the protection received entity table should be reported along with the protection provider
identifier. However, the protection provider identifier does not account for the primary key.
Moreover, any protection item is only reported once in the protection received entity, although
some protection items may be actually provided by several protection providers (for example,
joint guarantors).
•
observed agent identifier;
•
protection identifier.
4. counterparty-instrument entity table:
•
observed agent identifier;
•
contract identifier;
•
instrument identifier;
•
counterparty identifier;
•
counterparty role.
5. counterparty risk/default entity table:
•
observed agent identifier;
•
counterparty identifier.
6. counterparty reference data entity table:
•
counterparty identifier.
Please note that from the reporting agent’s perspective, the counterparty reference
data entity table is uniquely identified by the counterparty identifier. This is because
the counterparty identifier is uniquely assigned to a counterparty at the level of the
observed agent’s legal entity (i.e. the credit institution).
Ultimately, the counterparty will be Please note that the counterparty will ultimately be uniquely identified at European
uniquely identified at European
level, and this unique identifier will be used in AnaCredit. This unique identification at
level, and this unique identifier will
be used in AnaCredit
European level cannot be the sole responsibility of a reporting agent and will be
primarily carried out by the NCBs. Some countries have an existing Central Credit
Register and a process for identifying counterparties already in place. This implies
the existence of a unique counterparty identifier at national level (cf. Section 12.4.1
in Part II of the Manual).
The primary keys (abbreviated as PK) for each entity table are specified in Chart 15:
AnaCredit logical data model – the reporting agent’s perspective in Section 6.2 (and
in Chart 16: AnaCredit logical data model and reportable datasets – the reporting
agent’s perspective in Section 6.3).
Example 26: Counterparty identifier unique for the reporting agent
The reporting agent RA0 (a credit institution) reports for its two observed agents:
RA0_OA1 (the domestic part of the credit institution) and RA0_OA2 (a foreign branch of
the credit institution).
The observed agent RA0_OA1 holds an instrument in which client C is a debtor. The
observed agent RA0_OA1 uses the counterparty identifier Client_123 to uniquely
identify client C.
Similarly, the observed agent RA0_OA2 holds two instruments in which client C is a
debtor. However, the observed agent RA0_OA2 uses the counterparty identifier
Cpty_9867 to uniquely identify client C.
The reporting agent RA0 recognises that the counterparty identifiers Client_123 used by
the observed agent RA0_OA1 and the counterparty identifier Cpty_9867 used by the
observed agent RA0_OA2 both refer to the same client C.
Subsequently, to comply with the primary key definition of the counterparty reference
data entity table, the reporting agent RA0 assigns a unique counterparty identifier
Client_123_Cpty_9867 to Client C and uses this counterparty identifier to substitute the
different counterparty identifiers used in relation to the same client C in all the respective
entity tables of the two observed agents.
6.2.1.2 Foreign keys for each entity table
Foreign keys identify the relationships between the different entities. In particular, a
foreign key is one or more identifiers in one entity table that uniquely identifies a row
of another entity table. In other words, a foreign key is defined in the second entity
table but refers to the primary key in the first table.
For example, the combination (observed agent identifier, contract identifier,
instrument identifier) is a foreign key in the instrument-protection received entity
table that refers to the primary key in the instrument entity table. The combination
(observed agent identifier, protection identifier) in the instrument-protection received
entity table refers to the primary key in the protection entity table.
The foreign keys for each entity table are specified in Chart 15: AnaCredit logical
data model – the reporting agent’s perspective at the beginning of Section 6.2 (and
in Chart 16: AnaCredit logical data model and reportable datasets – the reporting
agent’s perspective in Section 6.3), where they are abbreviated as FK in the
respective entity tables.
6.2.2 Entity tables of the logical data model
The logical data model specifies data attributes for each entity table. A data attribute
is an individual characteristic to be collected and registered in a given entity table
(field/column).
mark: editorial The data entity tables as referred to in the logical data model differ from the actual
Revision
adjustments are made to this
AnaCredit reportable datasets. The difference arises when certain data attributes of
paragraph
a data entity are required for different frequencies or reporting methods (for example,
some data attributes are reported monthly, while others are reported quarterly).
Please refer to section 6.3 for more details. To achieve a high level of consistency
and data quality, all the data attributes are required to be compiled taking the
following principles into account:
•
all the data attributes are valid as of the same date.
On any given reference date, a data attribute represents a specific feature that is
valid or regarded as valid as of that reference date. All data attributes are valid as of
the same reference date – i.e. they represent specific features at the same moment
in time.
•
all the data attributes of the same table are defined on the same level of
granularity.
All data attributes in the same entity table relate to the same element and are
defined on the same level of granularity (i.e. the level corresponding to a single row
in a given entity table).
The data attributes to be compiled and collected in each entity table are listed below.
The definitions of the fields are provided in Part II of this Manual.
6.2.2.1 The instrument entity table
6.2.2.1.1 Definition of the instrument entity table
The instrument entity table is the centrepiece of the data model. This means that all
other entity tables relate directly or indirectly to the instrument entity table. The
instrument entity table collects specific information that describes the instrument,
such as the basic features of the instrument, the financial aspects of the instrument
and the accounting features of the instrument.
6.2.2.1.2 Description
The data in the instrument entity table describe both features of the instrument which
change rarely over time and features which reflect the instrument’s financial
development in accordance with the relevant accounting standard. Such features are
captured via respective data attributes which are required to describe the instrument
as of the same reference date. This means that any information collected is accurate
as of a given reference date. Any relevant dependencies between the data attributes
are also reflected accordingly.
Example 27 provides a representation of certain features of an instrument (a loan)
over time, with a focus on the relationship between the features.
Example 27: Selected information in the instrument entity table
A loan (credit) is represented by an instrument. The outstanding amount of the loan is
€10,000.
The instrument becomes non-performing as of 16 September. As of 20 October, the
loan is fully provisioned (i.e. an impairment loss is recognised), and as of 26 November
the loan is written-off.
The following table provides an overview of the selected features of the instrument and
how they evolve over time, taking into account the mutual dependencies between the
features, and following the events prescribed (leaving aside the fact that the data
attributes “accumulated impairment amount”, “performing status of the instrument” and
“accumulated write-offs” are not required for non-quarter-end dates).
Outstanding Accumulated
Instrument nominal impairment Performing status Accumulated
Date ID amount amount of the instrument write-offs
31/08/2019 Instrument 1 10,000.00 0.00 Performing 0.00
30/09/2019 Instrument 1 10,000.00 0.00 Non-performing 0.00
31/10/2019 Instrument 1 10,000.00 10,000.00 Non-performing 0.00
30/11/2019 Instrument 1 0.00 0.00 Non-performing 10,000.00
Notably, the write-off in November results in:
•
the outstanding nominal amount being reduced to €0, as following the accounting
rules the write-off leads to the derecognition of the loan from the balance sheet;
•
the accumulated impairment amount being reduced to €0, as this amount
corresponds exactly to the outstanding debt of the loan.
Please note that this example only illustrates the logic within the instrument entity table.
It does not indicate what and at which point in time is actually reported to AnaCredit.
More details on how the attributes interrelate with one another are provided in the
respective sections of Part II of this Manual, where the data attributes are specifically
discussed.
6.2.2.1.3 Record
For each instrument identified and registered in the respective datasets, the instrument
entity table contains a record, i.e. a single set of data, describing the instrument. The
information is provided for all instruments that are required to be reported. The criteria
triggering the reporting of instruments are presented in Section 5.
6.2.2.1.4 The level of granularity
Revision mark: an explanation is The level of granularity for the instrument is the instrument itself. This means that the
added that the identification is done
attributes are defined at the instrument level vis-à-vis the observed agent. Each
by the primary key
record is uniquely identified in the instrument entity table by its primary key, i.e. a
combination of the following data attributes (cf. AnaCredit Regulation, Template 1,
“Instrument data” and “Financial data”; Template 2, “Accounting data”):
•
reporting agent identifier;
•
observed agent identifier;
•
contract identifier;
•
instrument identifier.
6.2.2.1.5 Relationships of the entity table
Revision mark: the examples in The instrument entity table is related to:
this section are reformatted and
given a caption
•
the counterparty-instrument entity table;
•
the instrument-protection received entity table.
Instruments registered in the
Any instrument registered in the instrument entity table is registered in the
instrument entity table should be
registered in the
counterparty-instrument entity table.
counterparty-instrument entity table
There is a relationship between the instrument entity table and the counterparty-
instrument entity table:
•
One record in the instrument entity table links with at least three records in the
counterparty-instrument table (where it is registered along with the
counterparties assuming the roles of creditor, debtor and servicer).
•
One record in the counterparty-instrument entity table links with one record in
the instrument entity table.
Example 28: Relationships between counterparties and instruments
One counterparty may act as both creditor and servicer, while a different counterparty
acts as debtor. In this case, there are still three records (for the creditor, servicer and
debtor) in the counterparty-instrument entity table, all linked to the same instrument.
Conversely, several different counterparties may be linked with a single instrument if
there are, for instance, several debtors in relation to a single instrument. Each of these
relationships requires a separate record in the counterparty-instrument entity table.
Any instrument registered in the instrument-protection received entity table is
registered in the instrument entity table.
There is a relationship between the instrument entity table and the instrument-
protection received entity table:
•
One record in the instrument entity table links with zero, one or more records in
the instrument-protection received entity table (one record for each protection
item securing the instrument).
•
One record in the instrument-protection received entity table links with one
record in the instrument entity table.
Example 29: Relationships between instruments and protection
If an instrument is unsecured, there is no record for this instrument in the instrument-
protection received entity table.
Conversely, if an instrument is secured by several different protection items, there are
as many records for this instrument in the instrument-protection received entity table as
there are protection items securing the instrument.
6.2.2.1.6 Data attributes
The instrument entity table comprises the following data attributes:
Identifying data attributes
•
Reporting agent identifier
•
Observed agent identifier
•
Contract identifier
•
Instrument identifier
Other data attributes
Instrument data (dataset 2 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
1. Type of instrument
2. Amortisation type
3. Currency
4. Fiduciary instrument
5. Inception date
6. End date of interest-only period
7. Interest rate cap
8. Interest rate floor
9. Interest rate reset frequency
10. Interest rate spread/margin
11. Interest rate type
12. Legal final maturity date
13. Commitment amount at inception
14. Payment frequency
15. Project finance loan
16. Purpose
17. Recourse
18. Reference rate
19. Settlement date
20. Subordinated debt
21. Syndicated contract identifier
22. Repayment rights
23. Fair value changes due to changes in credit risk before purchase
Financial data (dataset 3 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
24. Interest rate
25. Next interest rate reset date
26. Default status of the instrument
27. Date of the default status of the instrument
28. Transferred amount
29. Arrears for the instrument
30. Date of past due for the instrument
31. Type of securitisation
32. Outstanding nominal amount
33. Accrued interest
34. Off-balance-sheet amount
Accounting data (dataset 6 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
35. Accounting classification of instruments
36. Balance sheet recognition
37. Accumulated write-offs
38. Accumulated impairment amount
39. Type of impairment
40. Impairment assessment method
41. Sources of encumbrance
42. Accumulated changes in fair value due to credit risk
43. Performing status of the instrument
44. Date of the performing status of the instrument
45. Provisions associated with off-balance-sheet exposures
46. Status of forbearance and renegotiation
47. Date of the forbearance and renegotiation status
48. Cumulative recoveries since default
49. Prudential portfolio
50. Carrying amount
6.2.2.1.7 Instrument dataset
The instrument entity table comprises dataset 2 (instrument data) and dataset 3
(financial data) in Template 1, plus dataset 6 (accounting data) in Template 2 of
Annex I to the AnaCredit Regulation.
6.2.2.2 The counterparty-instrument entity table
6.2.2.2.1 Definition of the counterparty-instrument entity table
The counterparty-instrument entity table is the set of all combinations of instruments
reported pursuant to Articles 4 and 5 within the scope of the reporting agent and
related counterparties which assume any of the roles of creditor, servicer, debtor
and, if applicable, originator vis-à-vis the instrument.
6.2.2.2.2 Description
The relationships between counterparties to the instrument are registered in the
counterparty-instrument entity table, which includes the counterparties directly
involved in the instrument and their respective roles vis-à-vis the instrument.
Specifically, the entity table registers all (non-natural person) counterparties which
take the role of:
•
debtor of the instrument;
•
creditor of the instrument;
•
servicer of the instrument.
Under certain circumstances, registration also includes counterparties which take the
role of:
•
originator to the instrument (if the instrument is a securitisation transaction)
Joint liability amount only for
The counterparty-instrument entity table supports the registration of the joint liability
counterparties acting as debtors
amount. The joint liability amount is only applicable for debtors, i.e. counterparties in
the counterparty-instrument entity table whose counterparty role is debtor.
Plurality of debtors means that two The counterparty-instrument entity table also supports the registration of debtors in
or more counterparties which are
the case of a plurality of debtors, whereby multi-debtor instruments are registered
liable for the same debt are (a) fully
or (b) partially liable. Counterparties
together with the information on the liability of each debtor in respect of an
are fully or partially liable the same
instrument.
instrument under the same contract
when they unite in making
repayments in respect of the
instrument
In particular, instruments relating to multiple debtors generally appear multiple times
in the counterparty-instrument entity table. Therefore, there is generally a repetition
of the instrument identifier and debtor counterparty role, associated with different
counterparties, for as many different debtors as the instrument possesses. The joint
liability information is provided individually for each record, and is never aggregated
across debtors.
All counterparties registered in the All counterparties registered in the counterparty-instrument entity table are also
counterparty-instrument entity table
registered in the counterparty reference data entity table.
should be registered in the
counterparty reference data entity
table
No records are made in the counterparty-instrument entity table for a given
instrument if all the counterparties to the instrument are natural persons.
Example 30 illustrates the contents of the counterparty-instrument entity table in the
case of an instrument granted to both a legal entity and a natural person, where both
debtors are partially liable.
Example 30: Instrument granted to a legal entity and a natural person (partial
liability)
As of 30 September, the reporting agent RA_1 reports data of the observed agent
RA1_OA1 following the logical data model.
The counterparty Legal entity A and the counterparty Natural person are both partially
liable for the instrument Instrument_A_1 registered in the instrument entity table. Both
counterparties are partially (and equally) liable for making repayments of
Instrument_A_1, i.e. each of them is liable for 50% of the instrument. The outstanding
nominal amount registered in the instrument entity table is €100,000. The partial liability
of each counterparty is 50%.
Date Instrument ID Outstanding nominal amount
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 100,000.00
Regarding the counterparty-instrument entity table, the following is registered:
Date Instrument ID Counterparty ID Counterparty role Joint liability amount
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 Legal entity A Debtor 50,000.00
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 RA1_OA1 Creditor n/a
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 RA1_OA1 Servicer n/a
In this case, only the counterparty Legal entity A is registered in the
counterparty-instrument entity with its role as debtor and the corresponding liability
amount of €50,000.
No entry at all is made for the other debtor – counterparty Natural person – in the
counterparty-instrument entity table.
By contrast, Example 31 illustrates the contents of the counterparty-instrument entity
table in the case of an instrument granted to two legal entities, where both debtors
are fully liable (i.e. each debtor is liable for 100% of the outstanding debt).
Example 31: Instrument granted to two legal entities, both fully liable for the
outstanding debt
As of 30 September, the reporting agent RA_1 reports data of the observed agent
RA1_OA1 following the logical data model.
The counterparty Legal entity A and the counterparty Legal entity B are both fully liable
for the instrument Instrument_A_1, registered in the instrument entity table. In other
words, each counterparty is liable for the total debt outstanding under the instrument –
as of 30 September the outstanding debt amounts to €100,000. The full liability of each
counterparty is 100%.
Date Instrument ID Outstanding nominal amount
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 100,000.00
In the counterparty-instrument entity table, the following data are registered:
Date Instrument ID Counterparty ID Counterparty role Joint liability amount
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 Legal entity A Debtor 100,000.00
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 Legal entity B Debtor 100,000.00
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 RA1_OA1 Servicer n/a
30/09/2019 Instrument_A_1 RA1_OA1 Creditor n/a
In this case, both the counterparty Legal entity A and the counterparty Legal entity B are
registered in the counterparty-instrument entity with their roles as (co-)debtor and the
corresponding liability amount of €100,000 each.
All counterparties that are registered in the counterparty-instrument entity table and
table.25
marked as debtors are also registered in the counterparty risk/default entity
6.2.2.2.3 Record
For any instrument identified and registered in the instrument entity table, there are
as many records in the counterparty-instrument entity table as there are
counterparties assuming any of the roles of creditor, debtor, servicer or originator of
that instrument, double- (or triple-) counting any counterparties that assume two (or
more) roles (i.e. if a counterparty acts as both creditor and servicer, there are still two
records relating to this counterparty in the counterparty-instrument entity table) but
excluding all counterparties that are natural persons.
Conversely, the counterparty-instrument entity table comprises records of those
counterparties which a) assume any of the roles of creditor, servicer, debtor and the
originator in relation to any reported instrument and b) are not natural persons,
taking into account the requirement that a counterparty cannot appear multiple times
in the same role in relation to one instrument.
25
Note that the counterparty risk/default entity table comprises also counterparties other than
debtors, cf. section 6.2.2.5.
6.2.2.2.4 The level of granularity
Revision mark: further The level of granularity for the counterparty-instrument entity table is the combination
explanations regarding the primary
of the counterparty, the counterparty role and the instrument. Each record is uniquely
keys are added in this paragraph
identified in the counterparty-instrument entity table by its primary key, i.e. a
combination of the following data attributes (cf. AnaCredit Regulation, Template 1,
“Counterparty-instrument data”):
•
reporting agent identifier;
•
observed agent identifier;
•
counterparty identifier;
•
contract identifier;
•
instrument identifier;
•
counterparty role.
6.2.2.2.5 Relationships of the entity table
Revision mark: the examples in The counterparty-instrument entity table is related to:
this section are reformatted and
given a caption
•
the counterparty entity table;
•
the instrument entity table.
Instruments and counterparties
Any instrument registered in the counterparty-instrument entity table is registered in
registered in the
counterparty-instrument entity table
the instrument entity table, and every counterparty in the counterparty-instrument
should be registered, respectively,
entity table is registered in the counterparty reference data entity table.
in the instrument entity table and
the counterparty reference data
entity table
There is a relationship between the counterparty-instrument entity table and the
counterparty entity table:
•
One record in the counterparty reference data entity table links with zero, one or
more records in the counterparty-instrument entity table.
•
One record in the counterparty-instrument entity table links with one record in
the counterparty reference data entity table.
Example 32: Relationships between counterparties to instruments and the
counterparty entity
A counterparty which acts as both creditor and servicer of the same instrument is
recorded in the counterparty-instrument entity table in two different records. This means
that two records also link with this counterparty in the counterparty reference data entity
table.
A counterparty (a protection provider) may grant protection securing an instrument
without assuming any of the roles of creditor, servicer, debtor or originator in relation to
the instrument. In this case, the protection provider is not reported in the counterparty-
instrument entity table. However, every protection provider which is not a natural person
is registered in the counterparty reference data entity table.
There is a relationship between the counterparty-instrument entity table and the
instrument entity table:
•
One record in the counterparty-instrument entity table links with exactly one
record in the instrument entity table.
•
One record in the instrument entity table links with as many records in the
counterparty-instrument table as there are counterparties assuming any of the
roles of debtor, creditor, servicer, or originator to this instrument, double- (or
triple-) counting counterparties that assume multiple roles (e.g., creditor and
servicer) but excluding all counterparties that are natural persons. There are a
minimum of three records in the counterparty-instrument entity table for every
instrument detailing its relationships with creditor, servicer and debtor, none of
which may be a natural person. Please note that if all debtors are natural
persons the instrument is not subject to reporting requirements pursuant to
Articles 4 and 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation.
Example 33: Relationships between counterparties to instruments and instruments
If one instrument links with no more than two counterparties (one assuming the roles of
creditor and servicer, the other assuming the role of debtor), then there are three
different records in the counterparty-instrument entity table.
Conversely, there may be many debtors (other than natural persons) of a single
instrument, each of them requiring a separate record in the counterparty-instrument
entity table. The total number of possible records in the counterparty-instrument entity
table relating to a single instrument is thus driven by the number of different
counterparties involved in the instrument in any of the following roles: creditor, servicer,
debtor or originator.
The following example illustrates the above set of relationships between instruments
and counterparties.
Example 34: Relationships between the counterparty and the instrument
For a given credit, represented by an instrument, there is always at least one debtor of
the instrument. The debtor is registered in the counterparty-instrument entity table and
is associated with the debtor counterparty role therein.
Any counterparty (other than a natural person) registered in the counterparty-instrument
entity table is registered in the counterparty reference data entity table. In particular, for
any debtor of an instrument the relevant debtor information (name, address, etc.) is
registered in the counterparty reference data entity table.
In the case of natural persons involved in instruments, for AnaCredit purposes, no entry
is made in the counterparty-instrument entity table and consequently no record appears
in the counterparty reference data entity table.
A number of distinct counterparties registered in the counterparty reference data entity
table may be debtors of several distinct instruments or just one instrument (i.e. in the
case of joint debtors) registered in the instrument entity table.
If an instrument relates to multiple (non-natural person) debtors then this instrument is
registered in the counterparty-instrument entity table multiple times. There is therefore a
repetition of the instrument identifier and other instrument information in multiple
separate entries with different debtor identifiers.
Some counterparties registered in the counterparty reference data entity table may not
be directly linked with any instrument registered in the instrument entity table.
Specifically, a counterparty that is a protection provider (e.g. a guarantor) is not linked to
any instrument in the counterparty-instrument entity table. Similarly, the head office
undertaking of a counterparty that is a debtor of an instrument may not be directly linked
to any instrument in the instrument entity table. Therefore, no such counterparty is
registered in the counterparty-instrument entity table.
6.2.2.2.6 Data attributes
The counterparty-instrument entity table comprises the following data attributes:
Identifying data attributes:
•
reporting agent identifier
•
observed agent identifier
•
counterparty identifier
•
contract identifier
•
instrument identifier
Other data attributes:
Counterparty-instrument data (dataset 4 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
51. Counterparty role
Joint liabilities data (dataset 5 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
52. Joint liability amount
6.2.2.2.7 Counterparty-instrument dataset
The counterparty-instrument entity table comprises dataset 4 (counterparty-
instrument data) and dataset 5 (joint liabilities data) in Template 1 of Annex I to the
AnaCredit Regulation.
6.2.2.3 The instrument-protection received entity table
6.2.2.3.1 Definition of the instrument-protection received entity table
The instrument-protection received entity table is the set of all combinations of
instruments reported pursuant to Articles 4 and 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation within
the scope of the reporting agent and the related protection items which secure the
instrument. It follows that, while all protection items in the protection received entity
table secure at least one instrument in the instrument entity table and hence appear
in the instrument-protection received entity table, instruments which are unsecured
do not appear in the instrument-protection received entity table.
6.2.2.3.2 Description
Instruments that are secured by protection are registered in the instrument-protection
received entity table, along with data on the extent to which the given protection item
secures the instrument.
All received protection should be All protection items received are registered (and allocated) in the
registered and allocated, not just
instrument-protection received entity table, regardless of whether or not the
protection that is eligible for the
calculation of credit risk weighted
protection is eligible for credit risk mitigation pursuant to the CRR.
assets pursuant to the CRR
The gross protection value is Any protection registered in the instrument-protection received entity table is also
required to be registered in the
registered in the protection received entity table, where the protection is registered at
protection received entity table,
before applying any (regulatory)
a gross protection value, i.e. before applying any (regulatory) haircuts.
haircuts
Revision mark: emphasis is given The instrument-protection received entity table contains information about all
to the registration of all protection
protection items that are committed, under the (credit) contract, to fulfilment of the
items, even those provided by
natural persons
terms of an instrument registered in the instrument entity table, including those
where the protection provider is a natural person. All protection items in the
instrument-protection received entity table are connected to the instrument that they
secure via the instrument identifier of the instrument that they secure.
If a protection item is used to secure several instruments, the protection identifier of
this protection item is registered in the instrument-protection received entity table
multiple times. This means that the protection identifier is repeated across records
for each instrument identifier of the instruments that are secured by this protection
item. However, the allocated amount (protection allocated value) is specific to the
instrument. In addition, on any given reference date, the sum of the protection
allocated values across all the instruments that the protection secures should in
general not exceed the protection value registered in the protection entity table.
Conversely, if an instrument is secured by several protection items, the instrument
identifier of the instrument is registered in the instrument-protection received entity
table multiple times. This means that the instrument identifier is repeated across
records for each protection identifier of the protection items that secure this
instrument.
6.2.2.3.3 Record
For each instrument identified and registered in the respective datasets, there are as
many records in the instrument-protection received entity table as there are
protection items securing the instrument. In particular, if an instrument is not secured
by any protection item, then the unsecured instrument is not registered in the
instrument-protection received entity table.
6.2.2.3.4 The level of granularity
Revision mark: further The level of granularity for the instrument-protection received entity table is the
explanations regarding the primary
combination of the instrument and the protection item. Each record is uniquely
keys are added in this paragraph
identified in the instrument-protection received entity table by its primary key, i.e. a
combination of the following data attributes (cf. AnaCredit Regulation, Template 2,
“Instrument-protection received data”):
•
reporting agent identifier;
•
observed agent identifier;
•
contract identifier;
•
instrument identifier;
•
protection identifier.
6.2.2.3.5 Relationships of the entity table
Revision mark: the examples in The instrument-protection received entity table is related to:
this section are reformatted and
given a caption
•
the instrument entity table;
•
the protection received entity table.
One record in the instrument-
Any instrument registered in the instrument-protection received entity table is
protection received entity table links
with exactly one record in the
registered in the instrument entity table, and every protection item registered in the
instrument entity table and one
instrument-protection received entity table is registered in the protection received
record in the protection received
entity table
entity table.
There is a relationship between the instrument-protection received entity table and
the instrument entity table:
•
One record in the instrument entity table links with zero, one or more records in
the instrument-protection received entity table (one record for each protection
item securing the instrument).
•
One record in the instrument-protection received entity table links with one
record in the instrument entity table.
Example 35: Relationships between instrument-protection and the instrument
If an instrument is unsecured, there is no record for this instrument in the instrument-
protection received entity table.
Conversely, if an instrument is secured by many different protection items, there are as
many records for this instrument in the instrument-protection received entity table as
there are protection items securing the instrument.
There is a relationship between the instrument-protection received entity table and
the protection received entity table:
•
One record in the protection received entity table links with at least one record
in the instrument-protection received entity table (one record for each
instrument secured by the protection item).
•
One record in the instrument-protection received entity table links with exactly
one record in the protection received entity table – see also Section 6.2.2.4.4.
Example 36: Relationships between instrument-protection and the protection
For every protection item in the protection received entity table there is at least one
record in the instrument-protection received entity table.
Conversely, if a protection item secures many different instruments, there are as many
records for this protection item in the instrument-protection received entity table as there
are instruments secured by the protection item.
6.2.2.3.6 Data attributes
The instrument-protection received entity table comprises the following data
attributes:
Identifying data attributes:
•
Reporting agent identifier
•
Observed agent identifier
•
Contract identifier
•
Instrument identifier
•
Protection identifier
Other data attributes
Instrument-protection received data (dataset 8 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
53. Protection allocated value
54. Third party priority claims against the protection
6.2.2.3.7 Instrument-protection received dataset
The instrument-protection received entity table corresponds to dataset 8 (instrument-
protection received data) in Template 2 of Annex I to the AnaCredit Regulation.
6.2.2.4 The protection received entity table
6.2.2.4.1 Definition of the protection received entity table
The protection received entity table is the set of all protection items that are used to
secure any of the instruments reported pursuant to Articles 4 and 5 of the AnaCredit
Regulation within the scope of the reporting agent.
6.2.2.4.2 Description
The specific features of any protection item registered in the instrument-protection
received entity table, such as the type of protection or the identification of the
protection provider, are registered in the protection received entity table.
The specific features registered in the protection received entity table are the
following.
Revision mark: emphasis is added For a given reporting agent, each protection item is always uniquely identified at the
that protection is uniquely identified
level of the reporting agent – i.e. if the same protection item secures instruments
at the level of reporting agent
held by several observed agents of one reporting agent, the protection identifier used
by the different observed agents is the same (cf. Section 2.2.6 in Part II of the
Manual).
A protection provider is registered A protection provider is always reported in the protection received entity table, unless
for each protection item in the
the protection provider is a natural person, in which case reporting of the protection
protection entity table
Revision mark: updated in line with
provider identifier does not apply (cf. Section 2.2.7 in Part II of the Manual).
Q&A 2018/0031
Protection provided by a natural Please note that although the protection provider identifier is not required where
person is required to be reported.
protection providers are natural persons for AnaCredit purposes, such protection
However, no actual protection
provider identifier is required for
items are reported in the protection received entity table and consequently in the
natural persons
instrument-protection entity table.
Please note that the threshold Protection is always provided by a protection provider. In some cases, protection
defined in Article 5 of the AnaCredit
may be provided by several protection providers (e.g. by joint guarantors or joint
Regulation refers to the debtor’s
commitment amount, so protection
owners of the protection items) – although in such cases, only one of them is
providers are reported regardless of
registered in the protection entity table. Please refer to Section 6.2.2.4.4 for details
the protection value
regarding how such cases are reported to AnaCredit.
Any counterparty that is a protection provider registered in the protection entity table
(where the protection provider identifier is registered) is also registered in the
counterparty reference data entity table. Please note that natural persons providing
protection are not registered in the counterparty reference data.
Providers of protection in the form With regard the relationship between the protection received entity table and the
of guarantees registered in the
counterparty risk/default entity table, protection providers are registered in the
protection received entity table
issuers26
should be registered in the
counterparty risk/default entity table if they are also the protection of the
counterparty risk/default entity table
protection (i.e. the provider of the protection and the issuer of the protection are the
same). This situation arises in the case of unfunded credit protection as defined in
Article 4(1)(59) of the CRR.
Revision mark: references to the Specifically, for protection items which are a financial guarantee as defined in
amended ITS are provided
paragraph 114 of Part II of Annex V to the amended ITS, the counterparty which is
the protection provider of such a protection item and is registered in the protection
table.27
received entity table is also registered in the counterparty risk/default entity
Note that a financial guarantee as defined in paragraph 114 of Part II of Annex V to
the amended ITS corresponds to the following types of protection (as defined in the
data attribute “type of protection” in Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation): “financial
guarantees other than credit derivatives” and “credit derivatives” (the latter to the
extent the credit derivative meets the definition of a financial guarantee).
6.2.2.4.3 Record
For all protection items identified and registered in the respective datasets, the
protection received entity table contains a single set of data describing each
protection item.
6.2.2.4.4 The level of granularity
Revision mark: further The level of granularity for the protection received entity table is the protection item.
explanations regarding primary
Each record is uniquely identified in the protection received entity table by its primary
keys are added in this paragraph
key, i.e. a combination of the following data attributes (cf. AnaCredit Regulation,
Annex I, Template 2, “Protection received data”):
26
Please note that the protection issuer is relevant, especially with regard to the creditworthiness
of the protection issuer.
27
Counterparty risk/default information should generally be available in relation to all protection
issuers and not just guarantors. As a result, it is expected that information on both protection
providers and protection issuers will be collected in the future and so counterparty risk/default
information will be required for all protection issuers.
•
reporting agent identifier;
•
observed agent identifier;
•
protection identifier.
Please note that the level of granularity does not include the protection provider
identifier. This is because the AnaCredit data model assumes that there is only one
protection provider for any protection item. However, protection may actually be
provided by several protection providers (for example, joint guarantors providing a
financial guarantee). Special treatment is therefore required if there are several
protection providers for the same protection item.
Specifically, although reporting agents identify all protection providers of any
protection item in their systems (e.g. by maintaining a relationship table between
protection items and their protection providers in line with the
counterparty-instrument dataset), only one of several protection providers is
technically reported to AnaCredit. The AnaCredit Regulation does not specify any
particular requirements as to which of the several protection providers is actually to
be reported.
6.2.2.4.5 Relationships of the entity table
Revision mark: the examples in The protection received entity table is related to:
this section are reformatted and
given a caption
•
the instrument-protection received entity table;
•
the counterparty reference data entity table.
One record in the protection
Any protection item registered in the protection received entity table is registered in
received entity table links with at
least one record in the instrument-
the instrument-protection received entity table for each instrument that it secures.
protection received entity table
There is a relationship between the protection received entity table and the
instrument-protection received entity table:
•
One record in the protection received entity table links with at least one record
in the instrument-protection received entity table (one record for each
instrument secured by the protection item).
•
One record in the instrument-protection received entity table links with one
record in the protection received entity table.
Example 37: Relationships between protection received and instrument-protection
If a protection item secures just one instrument reported in the instrument entity table,
there is one record for this instrument in the instrument-protection received entity table.
If a protection item secures several different instruments, there are as many records for
this protection item in the instrument-protection received entity table as there are
instruments secured by the protection item.
There is a relationship between the protection received entity table and the
counterparty reference data entity table:
•
Unless protection is provided by a natural person, one record in the protection
table28
received entity links with one record in the counterparty reference data
entity table.
•
One record in the counterparty reference data entity table links with zero, one or
many records in the protection received entity table.
Example 38: Relationships between protection received and counterparty
Unless a protection provider is a natural person, the protection provider is registered in
the counterparty reference data entity table, which describes the protection provider.
Where there are several protection providers for the same protection item, only the
protection provider actually registered in the protection received entity table is registered
in the counterparty reference data entity table.
There is a relationship between the protection received entity table and the
counterparty risk/default entity table:
•
One record in the protection received entity table for which the provider of the
protection and the issuer of the protection are the same (cf. Section 6.2.2.4.2
for details) links with one record in the counterparty risk/default entity table.
•
One record in the counterparty risk/default entity table links with zero, one or
more records in the protection received entity table.
6.2.2.4.6 Data attributes
The protection received entity table comprises the following data attributes:
Identifying data attributes
•
Reporting agent identifier
•
Observed agent identifier
•
Protection identifier
•
Protection provider identifier
Other data attributes
Protection received data (dataset 7 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
55. Type of protection
56. Protection value
57. Type of protection value
58. Protection valuation approach
59. Real estate collateral location
60. Date of protection value
28
In the case of protection items provided by several protection providers, only one is registered in
the protection received entity table for AnaCredit purposes.
61. Maturity date of the protection
62. Original protection value
63. Date of original protection value
6.2.2.4.7 Protection received dataset
The protection received entity table corresponds to dataset 7 (protection received
data) in Template 2 of Annex I to the AnaCredit Regulation.
6.2.2.5 The counterparty risk/default entity table
6.2.2.5.1 Definition of the counterparty risk/default entity table
The counterparty risk/default entity table is the set of all counterparties which are
debtors of any instrument reported pursuant to Articles 4 and 5 of the AnaCredit
Regulation within the scope of the reporting agent, with multiple counting of any
counterparty that is a debtor of instruments which relate to multiple observed agents.
The counterparty risk/default entity table also contains those counterparties (other
than natural persons) that provide protection in the form of financial guarantees (cf.
Section 6.2.2.4.2 for details) as registered in the protection received entity table.
6.2.2.5.2 Description
The counterparty risk/default entity table provides information on the probability of
default of the counterparty, the default status of the counterparty and the date of the
default status of the counterparty.
Counterparty risk/default The information in the counterparty risk/default entity table is collected for (a)
information is collected for debtors
counterparties registered as debtors in the counterparty-instrument entity table and
for (b) protection providers registered in the protection received entity table which are
concerned.29
also the issuers of the protection
The protection issuer is the The counterparty risk/default entity table is generally applicable to protection
counterparty which issues the
providers of unfunded credit protection as defined in Article 4(1)(59) of the CRR
protection – for instance, the issuer
of securities pledged as protection
which are at the same time the issuers of the protection. The protection issuer is
for an instrument
relevant, especially with regard to the creditworthiness of the protection issuer. It is
Revision mark: this paragraph is
therefore possible that the protection issuer could come into play at a later stage
aligned with Section 9.1.1 in Part II
when considering additional risk-related attributes in the future. The counterparty
of the Manual concerning providers
of unfunded credit protection
risk/default entity table would thus become relevant for all protection issuers and not
29
For example, financial guarantees and credit derivatives meeting the definition of a financial
guarantee are such protection items for which the protection provider and the protection issuer
are the same. Cf. Section 6.2.2.4.2 for details.
just those that are the providers of the protection at the same time. Otherwise, the
counterparty risk/default entity table is not required at present for protection
providers which are not at the same time the issuer of the protection.
All counterparties registered in the All counterparties registered in the counterparty risk/default entity table are also
counterparty risk/default entity table
registered in the counterparty reference data entity table.
should be registered in the
counterparty reference data entity
table
6.2.2.5.3 Record
For each counterparty, identified and registered in the respective datasets, which
acts as a debtor of any instrument or is a provider of protection in the form of a
financial guarantee (or any other protection for which the protection provider and the
protection issuer are the same) securing an instrument within the scope of the same
reporting agent, a record of data in the counterparty risk/default entity table for this
counterparty is reported separately for each observed agent within the scope of the
reporting agent in relation to which the counterparty acts as debtor or as a protection
provider.
6.2.2.5.4 The level of granularity
Revision mark: further The level of granularity for the counterparty risk/default entity table is the
explanations regarding primary
counterparty at the level of the observed agent. Each record is uniquely identified in
keys are added in this paragraph
the counterparty risk/default entity table by its primary key, i.e. a combination of the
following data attributes (cf. AnaCredit Regulation, Template 2, “Counterparty risk
data” and “Counterparty default data”):
•
reporting agent identifier;
•
observed agent identifier;
•
counterparty identifier.
The counterparty risk/default entity
Please note that although the counterparty risk/default entity table is reported at the
table should be reported at the level
of the observed agent, However,
level of the observed agent, the information contained therein is determined at the
the data attributes should be
appropriate level as stipulated by the CRR. In particular, the default status of the
determined at the level appropriate
for the CRR
counterparty and the probability of default (PD) of the counterparty are determined in
Revision mark: clarification is accordance with the CRR, which requires the level of the observed agent’s legal
added regarding the reporting of
entity (i.e. the credit institution as a whole). This means that for different observed
counterparty risk/default information
under one credit institution
agents under one credit institution to which the same counterparty acts as debtor or
protection provider of unfunded protection, the same PD and default status of the
counterparty are reported in relation to this counterparty.
6.2.2.5.5 Relationships of the entity table
Revision mark: the examples in The counterparty risk/default entity table is related to:
this section are reformatted and
given a caption
•
the counterparty reference entity table;
•
the counterparty-instrument entity table;
•
the protection received entity table.
One record in the counterparty
Any counterparty registered in the counterparty risk/default entity table is registered
risk/default entity table links with
exactly one record in the
in the counterparty reference data entity table.
counterparty reference entity data
table
There is a relationship between the counterparty risk/default entity table and the
Revision mark: this example is
counterparty reference data entity table:
merged with former Example 29
and is adjusted in line with the
•
clarifications regarding protection One record in the counterparty risk/default entity table links with exactly one
providers
record in the counterparty reference data entity table.
•
For each observed agent, one record in the counterparty reference data entity
table links with zero or one record in the counterparty risk/default entity table.
Example 39: Relationships between counterparty reference data and counterparty
risk/default
If a counterparty in the counterparty reference data entity table does not act as debtor
or provider (and issuer) of protection in the form of unfunded credit protection as defined
in Article 4(1)(59) of the CRR (such as a financial guarantee, cf. Section 6.2.2.4.2) in
relation to any instrument of the observed agent reported under AnaCredit, this
counterparty does not link to any record in the counterparty risk/default entity table.
If a counterparty in the counterparty reference data entity table acts as debtor in the
counterparty-instrument dataset to several instruments that relate to the same observed
agent, the counterparty is reported only once in the counterparty risk/default entity table.
If a counterparty in the counterparty reference data entity table acts as debtor or
provider (and issuer) of unfunded protection to several instruments held by different
observed agents within the scope of the same reporting agent, then the counterparty is
reported in the counterparty risk/default entity table relating to each of the observed
agents which hold any instrument in relation to which this counterparty is a debtor or for
which the counterparty provides a financial guarantee. In particular, the PD and default
status of the counterparty that are reported in relation to this counterparty are identical
across different observed agents of one reporting agent.
For counterparties registered in the counterparty risk/default entity table, relevant
counterparty information is registered in the counterparty reference data entity table.
Immediate and ultimate parent undertakings of a debtor (or a protection provider which
is also the protection issuer) of an instrument are also registered in the counterparty
reference data entity table. However, immediate and ultimate parent undertakings do
not need to be debtors of any instrument registered in the instrument entity table or
protection providers. Immediate and ultimate parent undertakings thus do not need to
be registered in the counterparty risk/default entity table.
6.2.2.5.6 Data attributes
The counterparty risk/default entity table comprises the following data attributes:
Identifying data attributes
•
Reporting agent identifier
•
Observed agent identifier
•
Counterparty identifier
Other data attributes
Counterparty risk data (dataset 9 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
64. Probability of default
Counterparty default data (dataset 10 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
65. Default status of the counterparty
66. Date of the default status of the counterparty
6.2.2.5.7 Counterparty risk/default dataset
The counterparty risk / default entity table corresponds to dataset 9 (counterparty
risk data) and dataset 10 (counterparty default data) in Template 2 of Annex I to the
AnaCredit Regulation.
6.2.2.6 The counterparty reference data entity table
6.2.2.6.1 Definition of the counterparty reference data entity table
The counterparty reference data entity table is the set of all institutional units which
are linked to instruments reported pursuant to Articles 4 and Article 5 of the
AnaCredit Regulation or provide protection to secure such, or are affiliated with
debtors or protection providers (AnaCredit Regulation, Annex I, Template 1, 1.3).
Each counterparty registered in the counterparty reference data entity table is
uniquely identified at the level of the observed agent’s legal entity (the credit
institution). This requirement is discussed in more detail in Section 3.1. No data on
natural persons are required in the counterparty reference data entity table.
6.2.2.6.2 Description
Specifically, the counterparties to be registered are:
(a) creditors;
(b) debtors;
(c) protection providers;
(d) originators;
(e) servicers;
The following counterparties affiliated with debtors or protection providers are also
registered in the counterparty reference data entity table:
(f) head office undertakings;
(g) immediate parent undertakings;
(h) ultimate parent undertakings.
However, additional conditions apply for head office undertakings, immediate parent
undertakings and ultimate parent undertakings. These conditions are:
fund)30
•
the head office undertaking of (a foreign branch or a special that is a
debtor of an instrument registered in the counterparty-instrument entity table or
a protection provider registered in the protection entity table;
•
the immediate parent undertaking of a debtor of an instrument registered in the
counterparty-instrument entity table or a protection provider registered in the
protection entity table;
•
the ultimate parent undertaking of a debtor of an instrument registered in the
counterparty-instrument entity table or a protection provider registered in the
protection entity table.
Please note that for each counterparty identifier reported in the following data
attributes “head office undertaking identifier”, “immediate parent undertaking
identifier” and “ultimate parent undertaking identifier”, there is a data record in the
counterparty reference data (i.e. dataset 1 in Annex I of the AnaCredit Regulation)
for each of the respective undertakings.
Please note that the counterparty identifier of a legal entity is at the same time the
counterparty identifier of the domestic part of the legal entity.
Please also note that the head office undertaking identifier, the immediate parent
identifier and the ultimate parent identifier are only required in the counterparty
reference data entity table for counterparties that are registered in the
counterparty-instrument entity table as debtor and counterparties that are registered
in the protection received entity table as protection providers.
The counterparty reference data entity table never includes data on counterparties
which are natural persons, even if such counterparties act as co-debtors (i.e. where
there is a plurality of debtors) of instruments registered in the instrument entity table
or as protection providers of any protection registered in the protection received
table.31
entity
Revision mark: editorial changes A counterparty may be a debtor in relation to several instruments or may assume
are applied to this paragraph
more than one of the above-mentioned roles. However, each counterparty is only
30
Cf. Section 3.1, which refers to special funds.
31
In fact, natural persons are not registered in any of the six entity tables for AnaCredit purposes.
registered once in the counterparty reference data (AnaCredit Regulation, Annex I,
Template 1, 1.3.).
6.2.2.6.3 Record
For all counterparties identified and registered in the respective datasets, there is a
single record of data describing the counterparties in the counterparty reference data
entity table.
6.2.2.6.4 The level of granularity
Revision mark: further The level of granularity for the counterparty reference data is the counterparty. Each
explanations regarding primary
record of the counterparty reference entity table is uniquely identified by its primary
keys are added in this paragraph
key, i.e. the combination of the following data attributes (cf. AnaCredit Regulation
Template 1; “Counterparty reference data”):
•
reporting agent identifier;
•
counterparty identifier.
Revision mark: editorial changes
As two different reporting agents may assign the same counterparty identifier to
are applied to this paragraph
counterparties,32
different the reporting agent identifier is necessary to distinguish
these two counterparties in AnaCredit.
Records in the counterparty reference entity data table represent institutional units
which are legal entities or form part of legal entities.
6.2.2.6.5 Relationships of the entity table
Revision mark: the examples in The counterparty reference data entity table is related to:
this section are reformatted and
given a caption
•
the counterparty reference data entity table (self-referencing);
•
the protection received entity table;
•
the counterparty-instrument entity table;
•
the counterparty risk/default entity table.
There can be three relationships between records of the counterparty reference data
entity table:
(a) Ultimate parent undertaking relationship:
32
Cf. point 1.3 of Template 1 and the definition of counterparty identifier in Annex IV.
•
One record of the counterparty reference data entity table can have zero or one
ultimate parent undertaking.
•
One record of the counterparty reference data entity table can be the ultimate
parent undertaking for zero, one or more other records of the counterparty
reference data entity table;
(b) Immediate parent undertaking relationship:
•
One record of the counterparty reference data entity table can have zero or one
immediate parent undertaking;
•
One record of the counterparty reference data entity table can be the immediate
parent undertaking for zero, one or more other records of the counterparty
reference data entity table;
(c) Head office undertaking relationship:
•
One record of the counterparty reference data entity table can have zero or one
head office undertaking.
•
One record of the counterparty reference data entity table can be the head
office undertaking for zero, one or more other records of the counterparty
reference data entity table.
Example 40: Relationships between foreign branch and head office undertaking
A resident foreign branch has one and only one head office undertaking
There is a relationship between records of the protection received entity table and
records of the counterparty reference data entity table:
•
One record in the counterparty reference data entity table links with zero, one or
more records in the protection received entity table.
•
Unless a protection provider is a natural person, one record in the protection
received entity table links with one record in the counterparty reference data
entity table; (there is no such link where protection providers are natural
persons).
Example 41: Relationships between protection and counterparty reference data
A counterparty can grant protection against a contractually agreed negative credit event
for zero, one or more instruments.
A protection item does not have a relationship with a record of the counterparty
reference data entity table if the protection item is provided by a natural person.
There is a relationship between the counterparty-instrument entity table and the
counterparty reference data entity table:
•
One record in the counterparty reference data entity table links with zero, one or
more records in the counterparty-instrument entity table.
•
One record in the counterparty-instrument entity table links with one record in
the counterparty reference data entity table.
Example 42: Relationships between counterparty-instrument and counterparty
reference data
A counterparty can grant protection against a contractually agreed negative credit event
for zero, one or more instruments, but this counterparty does not have any counterparty
role (neither debtor nor creditor nor servicer nor originator) in relation to any instrument.
A counterparty can play several roles for many instruments (debtor of a deposit; creditor
or originator of a loan; servicer) in relation to any instrument.
There is a relationship between the counterparty reference data entity table and the
counterparty risk/default entity table:
•
One record in the counterparty risk/default entity table links with one record in
the counterparty reference data entity table.
•
For a given observed agent, one record in the counterparty reference data
entity table links with zero or one record in the counterparty risk/default entity
table.
Example 43: Relationships between counterparty reference data and counterparty
risk/default
A counterparty in the counterparty reference data entity table which does not assume
the role of the debtor in relation to any instrument of an observed agent or is not a
guarantee33
provider of protection in the form of a financial does not relate to any record
in the counterparty risk/default entity table reported in relation to the observed agent.
6.2.2.6.6 Data attributes
Identifying data attributes
•
Reporting agent identifier
•
Counterparty identifier
Other data attributes
Counterparty reference data (dataset 1 in the AnaCredit Regulation)
67. Legal Entity Identifier (LEI)
68. National identifier
69. Head office undertaking identifier
70. Immediate parent undertaking identifier
33
Cf. Section 6.2.2.4.2 for more information.
71. Ultimate parent undertaking identifier
72. Name
73. Address: street
74. Address: city/town/village
75. Address: county/administrative division
76. Address: postal code
77. Address: country
78. Legal form
79. Institutional sector
80. Economic activity
81. Status of legal proceedings
82. Date of initiation of legal proceedings
83. Enterprise size
84. Date of enterprise size
85. Number of employees
86. Balance sheet total
87. Annual turnover
88. Accounting standard
6.2.2.6.7 Counterparty reference dataset
The counterparty reference data entity table corresponds to dataset 1 (counterparty
reference data) in Template 1 of Annex I to the AnaCredit Regulation.
6.3 Reportable datasets and reporting timeliness
The actual datasets to be reported are derived from the entity tables of the AnaCredit
logical data model, taking into consideration different methods for reporting the data
to AnaCredit and various reporting frequencies.
6.3.1 Reportable datasets
On a general level, AnaCredit requires that reporting agents report granular credit,
protection and counterparty information on a regular basis. More specifically, three
types of reporting frequencies have been introduced in the AnaCredit Regulation:
monthly, quarterly and on change.
Different reporting methods and To start with, the actual number of datasets to report (i.e. reports) is ten (10). This is
frequencies mean that there are
a result of applying different reporting methods and frequencies to different data
actually 10 distinct datasets
attributes.
In particular, the information contained in the instrument entity table of the logical
data model is actually divided into three (3) datasets solely for the purpose of
reporting the instrument information to AnaCredit:
1. the instrument dataset;
2. the financial dataset;
3. the accounting dataset.
The counterparty-instrument entity table is also divided into two (2) datasets:
4. the counterparty-instrument dataset;
5. the joint liability dataset.
The counterparty risk/default entity table is divided into two (2) datasets:
6. the counterparty risk dataset;
7. the counterparty default dataset.
Finally, the other three (3) entity tables of the logical data model are directly
translated into datasets. These are:
8. the instrument-protection received dataset;
9. the protection received dataset;
10. the counterparty reference data.
Since the ten distinct datasets are created by simply splitting the underlying entity
table into groups of data attributes contained therein, the level of granularity of these
ten datasets is the same as the level of granularity of the underlying entity table as
distinguished in the AnaCredit logical data model.
An overview of all ten of these datasets is provided in the logical data model chart
below. The origination of each of the datasets (i.e. a group of data attributes) is
indicated by colours. Groups of data attributes belonging to the same data entity are
defined on the same level and differ only in terms of the reporting frequency and
timelines applicable.
The split of the datasets into Template 1 and Template 2, as set out in Article 6 of
the AnaCredit Regulation, is also indicated in Chart 16. The following datasets are all
part of Template 1:
•
the counterparty reference data;
•
the instrument dataset and the financial dataset of the instrument entity table;
•
the counterparty-instrument dataset and the joint liabilities dataset.
The remaining datasets belong to Template 2.
Chart 16: AnaCredit logical data model and reportable datasets – the reporting agent’s perspective
This entity relationship diagram is presented taking the reporting agent’s perspective for a fixed reference date (thus not shown in the chart).
Reporting context
« head office undertaking of (2)(3)
Instrument
Reference date
« immediate parent undertaking of (2)
PK Observed agent
« ultimate parent undertaking of (2)
PK Contract identifier
PK Instrument identifier
Counterparty reference data
Type of instrument
PK Counterparty identifier
Amortisation type
Currency
Legal Entity Identifier (LEI)
Fiduciary instrument
National identifier
Inception date
Counterparty risk/default
Head office undertaking identifier
End date of interest-only period
PK,FK1 Counterparty identifier Immediate parent undertaking identifier
Interest rate cap
PK Observed agent
Ultimate parent undertaking identifier
Interest rate floor
Counterparty-instrument
Name
Interest rate reset frequency
Probability of default
9 Address: street
Dataset
Default status of the counterparty
PK,FK2 Observed agent Interest rate spread/margin
Address: city/town/village
Date of the default status of the counterparty
Interest rate type
PK,FK2 Contract identifier
Address: county/administrative division
10
PK,FK2 Instrument identifier Legal final maturity date
Dataset
Address: postal code
Commitment amount at inception
PK,FK1 Counterparty identifier
Address: country
PK Counterparty role Payment frequency
Legal form
4
Project finance loan
Dataset
Institutional sector
Purpose
Joint liability (1)
Economic activity
5 Recourse
Dataset
Status of legal proceedings
Reference rate
Date of initiation of legal proceedings
Settlement date
Enterprise size
Subordinated debt
Date of enterprise size
Syndicated contract identifier
Number of employees
Repayment rights
Balance sheet total
Fair value changes due to changes in credit risk before purchase
1
Annual turnover
Dataset
Interest rate
2
Accounting standard
Dataset
Next interest rate reset date
Default status of the instrument
Date of the default status of the instrument
Transferred amount
3
Dataset
Arrears for the instrument
Date of past due for the instrument
Type of securitisation
Outstanding nominal amount
6
Dataset
Accrued interest
Off-balance-sheet amount
Protection Accounting classification of instruments
Balance sheet recognition
PK Observed agent
Accumulated write-offs
PK Protection identifier
Accumulated impairment amount
Type of impairment
FK1 Protection provider identifier (4)
Impairment assessment method
Type of protection
Sources of encumbrance
Protection value
Accumulated changes in fair value due to credit risk
Type of protection value
Performing status of the instrument
Protection valuation approach
Date of the performing status of the instrument
Real estate collateral location
Provisions associated with off-balance sheet exposures
Date of protection value
Status of forbearance and renegotiation
Notes:
Symbols: Maturity date of the protection
Mapping to Dataset Date of the forbearance and renegotiation status
0 . . 1 ( 1 ) Jo i n t l i a b i l i ty a t t r i b u t e o n l y a p p l ie s f o r c e rt a i n v a lu e s o f ‘c o u n t e rp a r t y r o l e ’ O ri g i n a l p r o t e c t i o n v a lu e
a s d e fi n e d in
7 C u m u l a t i v e r e c o v e ries since default
1
Dataset
( d e b t o r ) i n r e l a t i o n t o a s i n g l e i n s tr u m e n t w h e r e t h e re a r e t w o o r m o r e d e b t o rs.
Da t e o f o r i gi n a l p r o t e c ti on value
A n aC r e d i t R e gulation
0 . . n
Pr u d e n t i a l p o r t fo l io
1 . . n 2 ) O n l y a p p li e s t o d e b t o r s a n d p r o t e c t i o n p r o v id e r s
Carrying amount
(3) Only applies to foreign branches
Minimum and
(4) Only applies to certain types of ‘type of protection’
maximum cardinality
in the relation
Mapping to AnaCredit Regulation. Annex I
Data to report and templates
Instrument-protection received
PK,FK1,FK2 Observed agent
Template 2
Template 1
PK,FK1 Contract identifier
1. Counterparty reference data 6. Accounting data PK,FK1 Instrument identifier
2. Instrument data 7. Protection received data
PK,FK2 Protection identifier
3. Financial data 8. Instrument-protection received data
4. Counterparty-instrument data 9. Counterparty risk data
Protection allocated value
5. Joint liabilities data 10. Counterparty default data 8
Dataset
Third party priority claims against the protection
The timelines for reporting the respective reports are described in the following
section.
6.3.2 Reporting methods, frequencies and timeliness
In general, AnaCredit anticipates that all data describe a credit (i.e., instrument,
protection and counterparty) as of the last day of the month to which they relate (i.e.
the reporting reference date). However, AnaCredit provides for different reporting
methods and frequencies for different datasets.
AnaCredit distinguishes between two different reporting methods:
(a) regular, where all records are reported;
(b) on change, where only new or changed records are reported.
AnaCredit distinguishes between two different reporting frequencies: (i) monthly
frequency and (ii) quarterly frequency.
Static data: due to relatively For datasets transmitted following the on change method, due to relatively infrequent
infrequent changes, these data are
changes of all their data attributes (i.e. static data), the reporting frequency for
sent once and updated only in the
event of changes
reporting new or changed records is monthly, which means that data are reported
once and updated only in the event of changes at least monthly, no later than the
Revision mark: further
clarifications regarding static data
monthly transmission.
are included
With regard to the transmission of data in the protection received entity table, the mix
of monthly (for new records) and quarterly (for changed records) reporting is to be
treated as monthly reporting.
Dynamic data: these data change Furthermore, datasets transmitted following the regular reporting method are
regularly and are therefore sent in
reported either monthly or quarterly depending on the dataset, where all records of a
every reporting period, with a
predefined frequency
dataset are required to be reported periodically because they can change in every
period (i.e. dynamic data) irrespective of whether or not there have been any
Revision mark: editorial changes
are applied to this paragraph
changes.
AnaCredit requires reporting of In all cases, complete records (rows with all the data attributes of the datasets) are
complete records and not just
required to be reported (as opposed to individual data attributes).
individual attributes
Records of a dataset (i.e. either all records or only new/changed records) with a
monthly reporting frequency are submitted to AnaCredit every month pursuant to the
timelines relevant for reporting data relating to an observed agent.
Data records reported on change With regard to new or changed records in particular, all records of a dataset are
should be reported at least once a
initially submitted to AnaCredit (as all are considered new records) in relation to the
month
first reporting of data for 30 September 2018. Thereafter, AnaCredit is only informed
of changed or new records. In the event of a change, however, the relevant records
do not have to be reported to AnaCredit immediately but are only required by no later
than the earliest monthly transmission date.
Please note that a new record covers the situation where a new instrument is
originated by the observed agent or a protection item is added in the period between
two consecutive reporting reference dates.
Quarterly reporting, meanwhile, means that the respective records of a dataset (i.e.
all records) are submitted to AnaCredit every quarter pursuant to the timelines
relevant for reporting data relating to an observed agent.
Different timeliness applies for submission of datasets (all records including
new/changed records) depending on the residency status of the observed agent.
In particular, for resident observed agents:
•
data reported monthly under Article 13(4) of the AnaCredit Regulation are
reported by NCBs to the ECB within 30 working days of the reporting reference
date (end of month) to which they refer;
•
data reported quarterly under Article 13(5) of the AnaCredit Regulation are
reported by NCBs to the ECB within 15 working days of the remittance date
(defined in Article 3(1)(b) of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
680/2014 – hereinafter referred to as “the ITS”) following the reporting reference
date (end of month) to which they refer.
Revision mark: an explanation is
For non-resident observed agents (i.e. observed agents that are foreign branches
added regarding non-resident
foreign branches
not resident in a reporting Member State), the following timelines applies:
•
data reported monthly under Article 13(6) of the AnaCredit Regulation are
reported by NCBs to the ECB within 35 working days of the reporting reference
date (end of month) to which they refer;
•
data reported quarterly under Article 13(7) of the AnaCredit Regulation are
reported by NCBs to the ECB within 20 working days of the remittance date
(defined in Article 3(1)(b) of the ITS) following the reporting reference date (end
of month) to which they refer.
The exact timeliness depends on the number of ECB and NCBs public holidays in
the reference period concerned.
The counterparty reference data dataset is compiled at reporting agent level
(counterparties contained therein are unique at the level of the reporting agent) and
the specific timelines for observed agents do not generally apply. More specifically, if
the reporting agent reports the activity as creditor or servicer of both resident and
non-resident observed agents, the different timelines are aligned to ensure
uniqueness of the counterparty reference data at the reporting agent level. Any
changes in the counterparty reference data therefore are reported following the
timelines envisaged for resident observed agents.
Revision mark: further The following table provides an overview of the reporting methods, frequencies and
clarifications are added to Table 3,
timeliness per dataset based on the residency status of an observed agent.
including about the remittance
dates
Table 3: Reporting method, frequency and timeliness per report and residency
status
Reporting timeliness
When to
Resident observed agent Non-resident observed agent
Dataset What to report? report?
Instrument Only new or Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
Monthly
dataset changed records working days days
Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
Financial dataset All records Monthly
working days days
date34
Accounting ITS remittance date + 15 ITS remittance + 20
All records Quarterly
dataset working days working days
Counterparty-
Only new or Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
instrument Monthly
changed records working days days
dataset
Joint liability Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
All records Monthly
dataset working days days
Instrument-
Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
protection All records Monthly
working days days
received dataset
Protection Only new or Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
Monthly
received dataset changed records working days days
Counterparty risk Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
All records Monthly
dataset working days days
Counterparty Reference date + 30 Reference date + 35 working
All records Monthly
default dataset working days days
Counterparty
Only new or
reference data Monthly Reference date + 30 working days
changed records
dataset
Reporting all records means that the complete dataset (new, changed and unchanged
records) is sent monthly or quarterly to AnaCredit (as indicated in the “When to report”
column).
Reporting only new or changed means reporting only those records that are either new
records or have been changed (i.e. one or more data attributes of a record have
changed) with the result that the values provided previously are no longer valid.
Revision mark: further Please note that the reporting timeliness indicated in Table 3 applies to transmission
clarifications are added
by NCBs to the ECB. NCBs may require the relevant datasets to the reporting
agents earlier than the timelines indicated according to Article 13(2) of AnaCredit
Regulation in order to meet their reporting deadlines to the ECB.
The so called “on change” reporting method is generally used to report static data,
i.e. data that are updated only if necessary. In the case of AnaCredit the “on change”
reporting method presented in the examples below is relevant for all datasets
whereby only new or changed records are reported. These are:
34
The reporting remittance dates defined in Article 3(1)b of the ITS are:
12 May for data relating to 31 March;
11 August for data relating to 30 June;
11 November for data relating to 30 September;
11 February for data relating to 31 December.
•
the instrument dataset;
•
the counterparty-instrument dataset;
•
the protection received dataset;
•
the counterparty reference data dataset.
With regard to counterparty reference data in particular, these data are highly
relevant for the cross-validation with AnaCredit data. It is therefore highly
recommended that these data are sent some days in advance. This would allow time
to resolve any possible incidents in the counterparty reference data before the actual
credit reporting takes place.
Revision mark: the reference to A set of illustrative examples of how to report a change in the instrument dataset to
the exact timeliness has been
AnaCredit is provided below. Please note that in all the examples the exact
moved up to outside of the
examples, the captions are
timeliness depends on the number of ECB and NCBs public holidays in the
adjusted
reference period concerned.
Example 44: Reporting in the case of a single change in a data attribute
This example concerns the instrument dataset. A change in one data attribute (e.g.
payment frequency) is acknowledged by the reporting agent on 22 October 2019. This
change relates to an instrument already reported to AnaCredit.
Given this change, a complete record (i.e. all the data attributes in one row, whether
affected or unaffected by the change) of the instrument dataset is reported by no later
than the 30th working day after the earliest reporting reference date on which the
change is in effect.
Since the relevant reference date for the change is 31 October 2019, the record is
reported to AnaCredit within 30 working days of the reporting reference date.
09/12/2019
30 working days
31/10/2019
after 31/10/2019
End of the month to which the data relate
Change to be reported
22/10/2019
Change occurred
(e.g. payment frequency)
Example 45: Reporting in the case of multiple changes in the same data attribute in
the same month
This example concerns the instrument dataset. A change in one data attribute (e.g.
payment frequency) is acknowledged by the reporting agent on 22 October 2019.
However, on 27 October 2019 the data attribute is changed again. These changes
relate to an instrument already reported to AnaCredit.
Given that only the latter change is in effect on the earliest reporting reference date (i.e.
31 October 2019), the former change (on 22 October 2019) is irrelevant and only the
change on 27 October is reported.
A complete record of the instrument dataset is reported to AnaCredit within 30 working
days of 31 October 2019.
09/12/2019
30 working days
31/10/2019
after 31/10/2019
End of the month to which the data relate Change to be reported
(Only the 2nd value)
22/10/2019
1st change occurred
(e.g. payment frequency)
27/10/2019
2nd change occurred in SAME attribute
(e.g. payment frequency)
Example 46: Reporting in the case of multiple changes in different data attributes
and dates in the same month
This example concerns the instrument dataset. A change in one data attribute (e.g.
payment frequency) is acknowledged by the reporting agent on 22 October 2019. On 27
October 2019 a change is made in another data attribute of the instrument dataset (e.g.
repayment rights). These changes relate to an instrument already reported to
AnaCredit.
Since both changes are in effect as of 31 October 2019, the timeline for reporting both
changes is 30 working days after 31 October 2019.
A single complete record (i.e. all the data attributes in one row, whether affected and
unaffected by the change) of the instrument dataset is submitted to update the two data
attributes changed.
09/12/2019
30 working days
after 31/10/2019
31/10/2019
Changes to be reported
End of the month to which the data relate
(both)
22/10/2019
Change occurred in 1st attribute
(e.g. payment frequency)
27/10/2019
Change occurred in 2nd attribute
(e.g. repayment rights)
Example 47: Reporting in the case of multiple changes in consecutive months
This example concerns the instrument dataset. A change in one data attribute of the
data (e.g. payment frequency) is acknowledged by the reporting agent on 22 October
2019. This data attribute is changed again on 3 November 2019. These changes relate
to an instrument already reported to AnaCredit.
Given that only the former change is in effect on the earliest reporting reference date
(i.e. 31 October 2019), while the latter change (on 3 November 2019) is only in effect on
30 November, the reporting timelines are as follows:
•
The first change (on 22 October 2019) is reported within 30 working days of 31
October 2019.
•
The second change (on 3 November 2019) is reported within 30 working days of 30
November 2019.
This means that a complete record (i.e. all the data attributes in one row) of the
instrument dataset is reported to AnaCredit within 30 working days of 31 October 2019
(for the change on 22 October 2019).
Another complete record of the instrument dataset is reported to AnaCredit within 30
working days of 30 November 2019 (for the change on 3 November 2019)
16/01/2020
09/12/2019
31/10/2019 30 working days
30 working days
End of the month to after 30/11/2019
after 31/10/2019
1st
which the change relates Change to be reported Change to be reported
(1st) (2nd)
22/10/2019
30/11/2019
Change occurred on 1st attribute
End of the month to
(e.g. payment frequency)
which the 2nd change relates
03/11/2019
Change occurred in 2nd attribute
(e.g. payment frequency)
7 Article 7 and reduced data requirements
Pursuant to Article 6(1) of the AnaCredit Regulation, reporting agents report to
AnaCredit all data attributes listed in the templates in Annex I of the AnaCredit
Regulation.
Reduced data requirements under However, as stipulated in Article 7, the reporting requirements may be reduced in
Annexes II and III
certain specific cases. These cases are described in Annex II and III of the
AnaCredit Regulation.
In fact, the AnaCredit Regulation distinguishes between:
•
specific cases in relation to counterparty reference data;
•
specific cases in relation to the remaining data attributes.
Annex III deals with reduced requirements for counterparty reference data, while
Annex II outlines reduced requirements for the remaining datasets.
In other words, the AnaCredit Regulation essentially requires that whenever an
instrument is reported to AnaCredit, reporting agents submit all the data attributes
listed in Annex I thereof. However, exemptions may apply in relation to certain data
attributes and under certain conditions.
General exemptions versus national Accordingly, the AnaCredit Regulation contains a classification of the specific
exemptions
circumstances under which a certain data attribute may not be required. A distinction
is made between the following:
(a) circumstances under which individual reporting agents may be exempted
from reporting certain data attributes by the relevant NCB;
(b) circumstances under which reporting agents are not required to report
certain data attributes at all.
Specific data attributes whose collection is at NCBs’ discretion (case (a) above) are
marked as “N” in Annex II and Annex III of the AnaCredit Regulation. Data attributes
that are not required to be reported (case (b) above) are marked as “X” in Annex II
and Annex III of the AnaCredit Regulation.
Required versus not required All data attributes that are not marked as either “N” or “X” in Annex II or Annex III of
the AnaCredit Regulation are required to be reported, in other words reporting
agents are obliged to report the actual value for such data attributes as of the
reporting reference date, where the actual value provides information about the
respective feature as of the reporting reference date to which it refers.
Revision mark: a reference to For information regarding the reporting of data attributes which are not (or may not
Section 2.2 in Part II of the Manual
be, at NCBs’ discretion) required or which do not apply under certain circumstances,
is added regarding special reporting
values
please refer to Section 2.2 in Part II of the Manual which deals specifically with
special reporting values.
7.1 General rules regarding data attributes marked as “X”
“X” data attributes are not Under the specified circumstances, the collection of any data attribute marked as “X”
mandatory
in Annex II or Annex III is not mandatory.
This means that reporting agents are not required to report the actual value for these
data attributes to AnaCredit in the specified situation.
The exemption from reporting certain data attributes to AnaCredit is nevertheless
without prejudice to national requirements. As NCBs may, on the basis of national
regulations, extend reporting obligations beyond the scope defined in the AnaCredit
Regulation, reporting agents in a given country may in fact be required to report
some or all of the data attributes marked as “X”. Such data attributes are also
transmitted to AnaCredit.
If reporting agents choose to report the data attributes not required by the AnaCredit
Regulation (i.e. they report the actual values for these data attributes), they are
collected by NCBs and transmitted to AnaCredit and are subject to the minimum
standards for transmission, accuracy, compliance with concepts and revisions
specified in Annex V of the AnaCredit Regulation.
7.2 General rules regarding data attributes marked as “N”
“N” data attributes are mandatory Under the specified circumstances, the collection of any data attribute marked as “N”
unless indicated otherwise by the
in Annex II or Annex III is mandatory unless decided otherwise by the relevant NCB.
relevant NCB
More specifically, NCBs have the right to exempt reporting agents from reporting
certain data attributes to AnaCredit under certain specified circumstances.
This means that if special conditions apply, the relevant NCB may decide not to
require reporting agents to report certain data attributes. Effectively, the reporting of
such data attributes is not mandatory under the specified circumstances and
reporting agents do not have to report the actual value for these data attributes.
Although the specific right of NCBs is deemed to be primarily applicable to individual
(or groups of) reporting agents (in cases where a given reporting agent temporarily
faces difficulties in obtaining the data), it may also be applied to the reporting
population as a whole if the relevant NCB considers that these difficulties exist
generally.
7.3 Reduced requirements for counterparty reference data –
the most onerous reporting requirement
Tables 2 and 3 of Annex III of the AnaCredit Regulation specify the reporting
requirements for each data attribute in the counterparty reference data described in
Template 1 of Annex I.
Table 2 specifies the requirements for counterparties resident in a reporting Member
State while Table 3 specifies the requirements for counterparties not resident in a
reporting Member State.
The level of application is the The requirements for counterparty reference data apply at the level of the reporting
reporting agent
agent; this is implied by the fact that counterparties are uniquely identified and
registered at the level of the reporting agent (i.e. the observed agent’s legal entity, cf.
Section 3.1).
In line with the AnaCredit data model, and as also described in Chapter 3, a single
counterparty may be involved in several instruments or take on different roles as a
counterparty for the same instrument. However, each counterparty is registered only
once in the counterparty reference data without specifying which roles the
counterparty takes on or which observed agent the counterparty actually originates
from.
In particular, any counterparty affiliated with instruments reported to AnaCredit may
take on one or more of the following roles:
•
reporting agent;
•
observed agent;
•
creditor;
•
debtor;
•
servicer;
•
originator;
•
protection provider;
•
head office undertaking (of a foreign branch or a special fund that is a debtor or
protection provider);
•
immediate parent undertaking (of a debtor or protection provider);
•
ultimate parent undertaking (of a debtor or protection provider).
Reporting agent reports only one
The counterparty reference data reported to AnaCredit by a reporting agent contain
record in the counterparty reference
data for each counterparty
only one record for each counterparty as of a given reporting reference date
irrespective of how many observed agents (of the reporting agent) effectively relate
to the given counterparty and regardless of how many roles the counterparty takes
on across the related observed agents. Irrespective of which role or roles a
counterparty takes on, the reporting agent reports a single record relating to the
counterparty in the counterparty reference data.
Different requirements for debtors In addition, in respect of the counterparty reference data relating to one reporting
depending on when reported
agent, AnaCredit distinguishes between
instruments originated
(i) debtors for which all instruments reported to AnaCredit originated before
1 September 2018;
(ii) debtors for which at least one instrument reported to AnaCredit originated
on or after 1 September 2018.
Date of origination is based on the Whether or not an instrument is originated before 1 September 2018 is determined
inception date of an instrument of
on the basis of the inception date (data attribute in the instrument dataset).
which the counterparty is the debtor
A counterparty may only be Finally, any counterparty may be either resident in a reporting Member State or not
resident in one country at a given
resident in a reporting Member State.
date
Registering a counterparty in the counterparty reference data means that a certain
number of data attributes are reported for the counterparty. Which data attributes
actually have to be reported depends on which roles the counterparty takes on, also
taking account of the possibility that the same counterparty may appear across
several observed agents of the same reporting agent.
The counterparty reference data More specifically, before a record can be registered in the counterparty reference
should be compiled at the level of
data it is first necessary to determine which data attributes are in fact required for
the reporting agent
each counterparty taking into account all roles (and instruments) that the
Revision mark: editorial
counterparty takes on across all observed agents reported by the reporting agent.
adjustments are applied to this
paragraph
In fact, the AnaCredit Regulation stipulates that if a counterparty to be registered in
the counterparty reference data is covered by more than one description in Table 2
or 3, the most onerous reporting requirement across the descriptions applies in
relation to the counterparty for a given data attribute.
The most onerous requirement is understood as follows: if a counterparty takes on
two roles (e.g. acts as both creditor and servicer) and the same data attribute is
required for the one role but not required for the other, the most onerous requirement
implies that the data attribute is required for the counterparty.
Example 48 illustrates how to determine whether a data attribute is reported to
AnaCredit in the event that a counterparty takes on more than one role listed in the
headers of Table 2 (and Table 3) in Annex III to the AnaCredit Regulation.
Example 48: Most onerous requirement takes precedence
Assumptions:
•
In relation to the reporting reference date 31 March 2019 the instrument INS_1 of
the observed agent RA_1_OA_1 is reported to AnaCredit by the reporting agent
RA_1. The counterparty Ctpy_A is a debtor of the instrument INS_1. The
instrument originates after 1 September 2018.
•
In relation to the same reporting reference date, the reporting agent RA_1 reports
to AnaCredit the instrument INS_2 of the observed agent RA_1_OA_1. The
counterparty Ctpy_A is a protection provider for the instrument.
•
The counterparty Ctpy_A is resident in a reporting Member State. The counterparty
is a legal entity. The reporting agent RA_1 reports no other instruments in which
the counterparty Ctpy_A is involved and the counterparty is not affiliated with any
other debtor or protection provider reported by the reporting agent RA_1.
Which data attributes are required for the counterparty Ctpy_A in the counterparty
reference data?
In relation to the data reported by the reporting agent RA_1, the counterparty Ctpy_A
takes on only two roles:
•
debtor — at least one instrument originated on or after 1 September 2018;
•
protection provider.
However, the counterparty only is registered in the counterparty reference data once.
The counterparty is uniquely identified by its counterparty identifier and the data
attributes to be registered are determined as follows:
In accordance with Table 2 (counterparty resident in a resident Member State), the
economic activity is required for the debtor’s role but may not be required for the
protection provider’s role depending on the decision of the relevant NCB. Since the
most onerous requirement takes precedence, the economic activity is required for the
counterparty Ctpy_A regardless of the NCB’s decision regarding the requirement for
protection providers.
Repeating the reasoning for all data attributes, the counterparty reference data reported
by the reporting agent RA_1 in relation to the counterparty Ctpy_A ultimately contains at
least the following data attributes:
•
counterparty identifier (always required);
•
national identifier;
•
head office undertaking identifier;
•
immediate parent undertaking identifier;
•
ultimate parent undertaking identifier;
•
name;
•
address: street;
•
address: city/town/village;
•
address: county/administrative division;
•
address: postal code;
•
address: country;
•
legal form;
•
institutional sector;
•
economic activity;
•
status of legal proceedings;
•
date of initiation of legal proceedings;
•
enterprise size;
•
date of enterprise size;
•
number of employees;
•
balance sheet total;
•
annual turnover;
These data attributes are generally required in relation to the counterparty Ctpy_A
because they are required by the AnaCredit Regulation for debtors with at least one
instrument originated at or after 1 September 2018 (and thus required) or are required
for both debtors and protection providers.
The only data attribute that is not required in relation to the counterparty is the
accounting standard, as this attribute is only required for reporting agents and the
counterparty in question is not the reporting agent reporting the instrument.
With regard to the legal entity identifier (LEI), this data attribute may not be required for
the counterparty concerned depending on what the relevant NCB decides.
The conditions that determined Please note that whether or not a given counterparty data attribute is required to be
whether or not a certain data
reported by a reporting agent depends on which roles counterparties take on in
attribute is required in relation to
counterparties should be verified on
relation to instruments reported to AnaCredit. Therefore, should a counterparty take
a regular basis
on an additional role from one reporting reference date to the next, the counterparty
reference data are updated accordingly. This is illustrated in the example below.
Example 49: More stringent requirements on subsequent reporting reference dates
The counterparty Ctpy_B is a servicer of an instrument of the observed agent
RA_1_OA_1 reported by the reporting agent RA_1 as of a given reporting reference
date. The counterparty Ctpy_B does not take on any other role in relation to any
instruments reported by the reporting agent RA_1.
The set of attributes to be reported in relation to the counterparty Ctpy_B is that which is
required for servicers resident in a reporting Member State as set out in Table 2
(column 11) of Annex III of the AnaCredit Regulation.
However, if on a subsequent reporting reference date the reporting agent reports an
additional instrument of which the counterparty Ctpy_B is a debtor, then the reporting
agent updates the counterparty reference data accordingly to account for the fact that
the counterparty Ctpy_B takes on two roles (servicer and debtor) as of the subsequent
reporting reference date. Again, the most onerous requirement across these roles takes
precedence (in this case, it is the role of debtor).
By contrast, in the opposite case where fewer data attributes are required for a
counterparty from one period to the next it is not necessary to update the
counterparty reference data by removing data attributes that are no longer strictly
required, provided such data remains up to date.
7.4 Deriving reduced requirements for credit data – the least
onerous requirement
The reporting requirements in relation to data other than counterparty reference data
– i.e. datasets 2 to 10 in Annex I – may be reduced if specific conditions apply.
AnaCredit Regulation specifies four cases in which certain data attributes are not
required:
1. observed agents that are not resident in a reporting Member State;
2. observed agents not subject to capital requirements;
3. fully derecognised instruments being serviced;
4. instruments originating prior to 1 September 2018.
The specific requirements in each of these cases are set out in Table 1 of Annex II.
As with the specific requirements for counterparty reference data, the following
classification is used:
(a) N: subject to individual arrangements, the relevant NCBs may decide not
to collect this information from individual (or groups of) reporting agents;
(b) X: information not required to be reported.
The least onerous requirement Where no classification is provided, the information is required to be reported. Any
applies. The level of application is
AnaCredit data attribute that is not listed in Table 1 of Annex II is required,
the single observed agent (as
opposed to reporting agent)
regardless of the four conditions referred to at the top of the table. However, where
data is covered by more than one description in Table 1, the least onerous reporting
requirement applies.
The least onerous requirement is understood as follows: if one (or more) of the four
cases applies in relation to the same data attribute and the data attribute is not
required in any of the applicable cases, the least onerous requirement implies that
the data attribute is not required.
Moreover, insofar as the requirements for counterparty reference data apply at
reporting agent level, the reduced requirements for the remaining data apply at the
level of the single observed agent.
To determine whether or not a certain data attribute listed in Table 1 of Annex II is
required, it is necessary to determine whether any of the four conditions referred to
at the top of the table are fulfilled for the data attribute in question. These conditions
apply at the relevant level: instrument, protection or counterparty. For the original
protection value and the date of original protection value, the relevant level is the
protection. For the probability of default, the default status of the counterparty and
the date of the default status of the counterparty, the relevant level is the
counterparty. For any other data attribute listed in Table 1, the relevant level is the
instrument.
It is sufficient to verify conditions 1 With regard to conditions 1 and 2, if an observed agent is (1) not resident in a
and 2 at observed agent level
reporting Member State or (2) not subject to capital requirements the conditions are
automatically fulfilled at all three levels, i.e. all instruments, counterparties and
protection items of that observed agent fulfil the conditions.
Conditions 3 and 4 are verified at instrument level. Moreover, for most of the data
attributes listed in Table 1 of Annex II of the AnaCredit Regulation it is sufficient to
verify the conditions vis-à-vis a single instrument, independently of other
instruments.
To verify conditions 3 and 4 at the For two data attributes (original protection value and date of original protection
level of the protection item, all
value), however, the conditions are verified at the level of the protection item,
instruments secured by the
protection item should be
considering all instruments linked to the protection item concerned. More specifically,
considered
conditions 3 and 4 are fulfilled for a given protection item if the conditions are fulfilled
for all instruments which the protection item secures.
To verify conditions 3 and 4 at the For three other data attributes (probability of default, default status of the
level of the counterparty, all
counterparty, and date of the default status of the counterparty), all instruments
instruments of which the
counterparty is a debtor should be
related to a certain counterparty are considered. More specifically, conditions 3 and
considered
4 are fulfilled for a given counterparty if the conditions are fulfilled for all instruments
of which the counterparty is the debtor or the protection provider (please note that
the three data attributes are only required for counterparties who act as debtors or
protection providers).
Least onerous requirement Ultimately, if any of the four conditions is fulfilled at the respective level and there is
an “N” or “X” in Table 1 of Annex II for the data attribute, then the data attribute is not
required to be reported provided that the relevant NCB considers that this data
attribute is not required under this condition.
Example 50 illustrates the derivation of the reduced reporting requirements in
relation to non-counterparty reference data, where the least onerous requirement
applies.
Example 50: Determining the least onerous requirement
Data of the observed agent RA_1_OA_1 are reported by the reporting agent RA_1. The
observed agent RA_1_OA_1 is neither resident in a reporting Member State nor is
subject to capital requirements under the CRR.
The observed agent holds the instrument INST_1, which originated before 1 September
2018. The instrument is recognised and is secured by the protection item
PROT_1_INST_1. Please note that no additional instrument of the observed agent that
originated on or after 1 September 2018 is secured by the same protection item
PROT_1_INST_1. The counterparty Cpty_D is the debtor of the instrument.
In accordance with Table 1 of Annex II of the AnaCredit Regulation, the corresponding
reporting requirements are summarised below. The conditions to be verified are 1, 2 and
4. Specifically, the data attributes highlighted in orange in the last column (least onerous
requirement) are required unless the relevant NCB considers that they are not required
to be reported. The data attribute “prudential portfolio” is not required. All other data
attributes, including those not listed in the table, are required to be reported to
AnaCredit.
Please note that in Table 4 below, the data attributes that are subject to reduced
requirements depending on the applicability of the four cases have been highlighted in
different colours:
•
data attributes that may be exempted from reporting at NCBs’ discretion are
highlighted in orange;
•
data attributes that are not required are highlighted in green.
In addition, grey denotes those cases which are not applicable in the given situation,
while all other cells (in white) indicate that no special treatment applies.
Table 4: Deriving the requirements following Example 50
Does the condition in the header apply in the Not Resulting
Applicable Applicable Applicable
situation of Example 3 above? applicable requirement
Level of Data attribute 1. 2. 3. 4. Least
application of Observed Observed Fully Instrume onerous
the condition agents agents derecognints requirement
that are not sed originatin
not subject to instrume g prior to
resident capital nts being 1
in a requirem serviced Septemb
reporting ents er 2018
Member
State
Instrument Project finance loan N
N
Instrument Inception date N N
Instrument Interest rate type N N
Instrument Interest rate reset frequency N N
Instrument End date of interest-only period N N
N
Instrument Reference rate N N
Instrument Interest rate spread/margin N N
Instrument Interest rate cap N N N
Instrument Interest rate floor N N
N
Instrument Amortisation type N N N
Instrument Payment frequency N N N
Fair value changes due to changes in credit risk
Instrument N N N
before purchase
Instrument Next interest rate reset date N N
Instrument Default status of the instrument N
N
Instrument Date of the default status of the instrument N
N
Instrument Accrued interest N N
Instrument Accounting classification of instruments X
Instrument Sources of encumbrance N X N
Instrument Accumulated write-offs X
Instrument Accumulated impairment amount X
Instrument Type of impairment X
Instrument Impairment assessment method X
Instrument Accumulated changes in fair value due to credit risk X
Instrument Performing status of the instrument N
N
Instrument Date of the performing status of the instrument N
N
Provisions associated to off-balance sheet
Instrument X
exposures
Instrument Date of the forbearance and renegotiation status N N
Instrument Prudential portfolio X X X
Instrument Carrying amount X
Protection and
Protection original value N N
instrument
Protection and
Protection original valuation date N N
instrument
Counterparty Probability of default N N N
Counterparty Default status of the counterparty N N
N
Counterparty Date of the default status of the counterparty N N N
The conditions that determine Please note that whether or not a certain data attribute listed in Table 1 of Annex II of
whether or not a certain data
the AnaCredit Regulation is required to be reported depends on which conditions
attribute in Table 1 of Annex II is
required should be verified on a
apply on a given reporting reference date. Therefore, should the applicability of any
regular basis not only for the initial
of these conditions change over time, the reporting status of a given data attribute is
transmission of the data
updated accordingly.
While the explanation above focuses on the determining which data attributes are
actually subject to reduced reporting requirements in a given situation, the following
sections discuss the specific cases referred to in Annex II of the AnaCredit
Regulation.
7.4.1 Observed agents that are not resident in a reporting Member State
With regard to Case 1 as referred to in Annex II of the AnaCredit Regulation, in
accordance with Article 6(2) data of observed agents both resident and non-resident
in a reporting Member State are generally subject to AnaCredit reporting. This
means that reporting agents which comprise several institutional units (the domestic
part and any foreign branches) are responsible for reporting data relating to all these
institutional units.
Pursuant to Article 6(4), the However, the AnaCredit Regulation provides that the relevant NCB may either
relevant NCB may decide not to
(a) not collect any data of non-resident observed agents at all, pursuant to
collect information with regard to
non-resident foreign branches
Article 6(4), or (b) limit the scope of the collection from non-resident observed agents
by not collecting data attributes marked as “N” in Table 1 of Annex II under Case 1,
pursuant to Article 7.
In both cases, non-resident observed agents are those institutional units of reporting
agents which are not located in a reporting Member State. These can only be foreign
branches located in a country which is not a reporting Member State.
In line with Article 1(1), and as explained in Chapter 2, a reporting Member State
means either:
•
a European Union Member State whose currency is the euro;
•
a Member State of the European Union whose currency is not the euro that
joins AnaCredit on a voluntary basis.
Consequently, all observed agents which are not located in a reporting Member
State are considered to be non-resident observed agents.
Conversely, no observed agent for which the data attribute “address: country” in the
counterparty reference data is reported as a reporting Member State fulfils the
condition “observed agents that are not resident in a reporting Member State”.
7.4.2 Observed agents not subject to capital requirements
Under Case 2, instruments may be subject to less stringent requirements provided
that the observed agent whose activity as creditor or servicer is reported:
(a) is not (a legally dependent part of) a credit institution subject to the CRR;
(b) is a foreign branch of a credit institution not subject to the CRR.
As explained above, the applicability of this condition can be sufficiently verified at
the level of the observed agent without considering individual instruments.
The CRR only applies to credit institutions; no foreign branches of credit institutions
are covered by this Regulation. Please note that foreign branches (or any branch
offices in general) are not directly subject to the CRR or to the CRD IV because a
(foreign) branch is a legally dependent part of a legal entity and thus may not be
addressed by the CRR directly. Please note also that if a credit institution does not
have any foreign branches, its (only) observed agent (i.e., the domestic part) is the
credit institution itself.
Effectively, given the reporting population and the reference population as defined in
the AnaCredit Regulation, all observed agents are legally dependent parts of credit
institutions and the only applications of Case 2 are thus (a) in the case of a foreign
branch resident in a reporting Member State of a credit institution that is resident
outside the European Union and (b) in the case of credit institutions (as defined in
the CRR) which are exempt from supervision under Article 2(5) of the CRD IV.
7.4.3 Fully derecognised instruments being serviced
With regard to Case 3 referred to in Annex II of the AnaCredit Regulation, it should
be clarified that the scope of fully derecognised instruments being serviced
corresponds to instruments serviced but not held by the observed agent for which
the data attribute “balance sheet recognition” takes the value “entirely derecognised”.
Revision mark: this section is In particular, fiduciary loans which are not treated as assets by a trustee which is the
expanded with examples of
observed agent, as well as intracompany loans and fully transferred instruments (for
instruments that meet the definition
of fully derecognised instruments
example being subject to traditional securitisations or other transfers), are always
being serviced and of instruments
treated as “fully derecognised loans being serviced” in accordance with Annex II of
that do not meet this definition
the AnaCredit Regulation (cf. Section 5.4.2 in Part II of the Manual).
However, fully written-off loans which are held by the observed agent and are not
recognised in the balance sheet (i.e. the data attribute “balance sheet recognition” is
reported as “entirely derecognised”) do not meet the definition of “fully derecognised
instruments being serviced” in accordance with Annex II of the AnaCredit Regulation
(cf. Section 5.2.2.2 for more information concerning written-off instruments).
In other words, “fully derecognised instruments being serviced” and “entirely
derecognised instruments” are related but not fully overlapping terms. Please refer to
Section 5.4.2 in Part II of the Manual for more details regarding the difference
between the two terms.
Conversely, no instrument, which is serviced but not held by the observed agent, for
which the data attribute “balance sheet recognition” is reported as “entirely
recognised” or “recognised to the extent of the institution’s continuing involvement”
meets the condition “fully derecognised instruments being serviced”. In particular,
fiduciary instruments which are assets of the observed agent under the relevant
accounting standard or instruments which are transferred but not derecognised do
not meet the condition “fully derecognised instruments being serviced” as referred to
in Annex II of the AnaCredit Regulation.
7.4.4 Instruments originating prior to 1 September 2018
An instrument qualifies as an instrument originating prior to 1 September 2018 if the
inception date reported for the instrument in the data attribute “inception date” is
before 1 September 2018. Conversely, instruments for which the inception date
reported to AnaCredit is on or after 1 September 2018 do not meet the condition
“instruments originating prior to 1 September 2018”.
Contract changes do not lead to a The application of the condition relies by and large on the inception date of an
change in the inception date
instrument (cf. Section 3.4.4 in Part II of the Manual). It should be made clear,
therefore, that a modification in the conditions of an (existing) instrument triggers a
renegotiation (or forbearance); the inception date of the instrument is not changed. In
other words, unless the old contract is cancelled and a new one issued instead,
contract changes do not lead to a change in the inception date – changes in the
contract are flagged in the respective data attributes and the date of their occurrence
is captured by the data attribute “date of status of forbearance and renegotiation”.
Identification of renegotiated and Please note that AnaCredit distinguishes between renegotiation and forbearance. In
forborne instruments is flagged via
both cases there is an agreement between the creditor and the debtor to amend
the data attribute “status of
forbearance and renegotiation”
terms and conditions of the original contract, but renegotiation refers only to changes
under normal market conditions.
A renegotiation is triggered whenever the financial conditions of the instrument are
contractually changed. A change qualifies as a contractual change in financial
conditions whenever the parties involved agree, in legally binding terms, that the
payments and risks born in relation to the instrument change (cf. Section 5.4.12 in
Part II of the Manual, which deals specifically with the status of forbearance and
renegotiation).
Consequently, extending the legal final maturity date of an instrument triggers a
renegotiation (or forbearance) but does not trigger a change in the instrument’s
inception date.
The inception date for unauthorised The inception date for an unauthorised overdraft (i.e. a debit balance on a current
overdrafts existing as of a reporting
account with no credit limit) is the date on which the overdraft arose (the latest such
reference date is the date on which
the overdraft arose, not the
date). In other words, for unauthorised overdrafts the inception date is the settlement
origination date of the underlying
date (i.e. the disbursement date) – discussed in more detail in Section 3.4.1 of Part II
current account
of the Manual, which deals specifically with the instrument dataset) – and not the
date of the contract under which the associated current account was originated.
8 Derogations and reduced reporting
frequency for small reporting agents
Reporting agents are in principle subject to the full reporting requirements set out in
the Annex I of the AnaCredit Regulation, which specify the minimum requirements
that reporting agents should meet to satisfy the ECB’s reporting requirements for
AnaCredit.
However, to ensure the proportionality of the reporting obligations established in the
AnaCredit Regulation, there is scope for NCBs to exempt – or partially exempt –
certain reporting agents from these obligations.
In particular, the AnaCredit Regulation distinguishes between (i) small reporting
agents to whom derogations may be applicable pursuant to Article 16(1) and (ii)
small reporting agents that may temporarily report on a quarterly basis pursuant to
Article 16(2).
In the case of small reporting agents subject to derogations, the relevant NCB will
determine (a) the reporting agents to which derogations apply and (b) the
requirements that the reporting agents should meet to satisfy the ECB’s reporting
requirements for AnaCredit.
With regard to small reporting agents exempt from the monthly reporting, the
relevant NCB will determine which reporting agents are allowed to report on a
quarterly instead of a monthly basis for a fixed period of time until 1 January 2021.
Revision mark: a reference to For more information concerning the application of derogations for small reporting
Article 15 of the AnaCredit
agents, see the AnaCredit Guideline.
Guideline is added
Reporting agents which are not subject to derogations pursuant to Article 16(1) of
the AnaCredit Regulation or which do not report on a quarterly instead of a monthly
basis pursuant to Article 16(2) are in principle subject to the full reporting
requirements in accordance with Article 6(1). These reporting agents may
nevertheless be exempted, at NCBs’ discretion and to the extent provided for in the
AnaCredit Regulation, from fulfilling certain requirements as specified in Annex II and
Annex III of the AnaCredit Regulation (cf. Chapter 7).
Revision mark: a reference to the
first reporting reference date is
removed
8.1 Small reporting agents subject to derogations
The AnaCredit Regulation provides that certain reporting agents may, at NCBs’
discretion, be entirely or partially exempted from the reporting obligations.
In line with the principle of proportionality, the AnaCredit Regulation allows NCBs to
grant derogations to avoid imposing an undue reporting burden, particularly on small
reporting agents with limited total credit exposure.
For each reporting Member State, there is scope within the AnaCredit Regulation to
grant such derogations to a subset of reporting agents provided that the total amount
of loans reported pursuant to the BSI Regulation by such reporting agents does not
exceed 2% of the overall amount of loans reported pursuant to the BSI Regulation in
a given reporting Member State.
The granting of derogations is at The granting of derogations is at the discretion of the relevant NCB, which will
the discretion of the relevant NCB
determine, obeying the materiality threshold of 2%, (a) the reporting agents to which
derogations apply and (b) the requirements (if any) that the reporting agents should
meet to satisfy the ECB’s reporting requirements for AnaCredit.
The granting of derogations is always discretionary and never mandatory.
The materiality threshold of 2% is The relevant NCB may establish a subset of reporting agents subject to derogations.
unrelated to the actual type of
In doing so, the relevant NCB considers the overall amount of loans reported in
instruments to be reported to
AnaCredit
accordance with the BSI Regulation, including loans and debtors that fall outside in
the scope of AnaCredit.
Reference to the outstanding In other words, there is no requirement to adhere strictly to the scope of AnaCredit
amount of loans of credit institutions
when defining the population of small reporting agents. On the contrary, it is
received in the context of Monetary
Financial Institutions balance sheet
sufficient for NCBs to solely use the information reported pursuant to the BSI
statistics as referred to in
Regulation when identifying the reporting agents whose cumulative amount of loans
Regulation (EU) No 1071/2013
does not account for more than 2% of the overall amount of loans reported in a given
reporting Member State. Not requiring data which adheres closely to the scope of
AnaCredit makes the process simpler and more transparent, and most importantly
means that reporting agents potentially subject to derogations do not have to
prepare relevant data as if they had to report to AnaCredit.
The scope of derogations is left to The relevant NCB may exempt small reporting agents entirely from the obligation to
the discretion of the relevant NCB.
report to AnaCredit (full derogations) or may exempt small reporting agents from
Derogations may cover all or only
certain reporting requirements
certain requirements only (partial derogations).
In line with Article 16(4) of the AnaCredit Regulation, NCBs will inform reporting
agents if they have been granted a derogation and what the respective requirements
are (if any).
Furthermore, reporting agents that no longer fulfil the conditions for receiving a
derogation will be informed by the relevant NCB about their reporting obligations at
least 18 months before the first reporting reference date for which they report data.
8.2 Small reporting agents reporting on a quarterly basis
The AnaCredit Regulation provides that certain reporting agents may be temporarily
exempted from the obligation to report on a monthly basis, at NCBs’ discretion.
The application of this exemption is Specifically, in line with Article 16(2) small reporting agents in a given reporting
always discretionary and never
Member State may report on a quarterly basis until the end of 2020 provided that the
mandatory
total outstanding amount of loans of such institutions (as reported in accordance with
the BSI Regulation does not exceed 4% at national level.
Derogations from reporting on a The AnaCredit Regulation leaves it up to the relevant NCB to determine whether a
monthly basis are at the discretion
certain reporting agent may report on a quarterly instead of monthly basis.
of the relevant NCB
The materiality threshold of 4% is In doing so, the relevant NCB considers the overall amount of loans reported in
unrelated to the actual type of
accordance with the BSI Regulation, including loans that fall outside the scope of
instruments to be reported to
AnaCredit
AnaCredit.
Reference to the outstanding Accordingly, when initially defining the population of small reporting agents that may
amount of loans of credit institutions
report on a quarterly basis it is sufficient for NCBs to solely use the information
received in the context of MFI
balance sheet statistics as referred
reported pursuant to the BSI Regulation when identifying the reporting agents whose
to in Regulation (EU) No 1071/33
cumulative amount of loans does not account for more than 4% of the overall
amount of loans reported in a given reporting Member State.
The reduced reporting frequency exemption is only available temporarily – no
reporting agent may be exempted in accordance with Article 16(2) from the monthly
reporting of data relating to reporting reference dates from 31 January 2021
onwards.
The same reporting agent is not The application of derogations in line with Article 16(1) and the application of
expected to be subject to both
quarterly reporting pursuant to Article 16(2) are mutually independent, i.e. the
derogations and reduced reporting
frequency
relevant NCB may establish one set of small reporting agents subject to derogations,
obeying the materiality threshold of 2%, and another set of small reporting agents
exempted from reporting on a quarterly basis, obeying the materiality threshold of
4%. Please note that the materiality threshold of 4% is the combined contribution of
the two possible types of derogations since quarterly derogations may be granted to
small reporting agents that are eligible for derogations in accordance with
Article 16(1) but are not granted any derogation.
Being exempted from reporting on a Quarterly reporting means that small reporting agents are only required to report
monthly basis means that only data
data for quarter-end reporting reference dates (i.e. 31 March, 30 June, 30
valid as of the end of each quarter
have to be reported
September and 31 December) and are exempted from reporting data for non-
quarter-end reporting reference dates (i.e. 31 January, 28/29 February, 30 April, 31
May, 31 July, 31 August, 31 October and 30 November).
This means that small reporting agents who are subject to reporting on a quarterly
instead of a monthly basis send data to AnaCredit in relation to four (4) instead of
twelve reporting reference dates each year.
Revision mark: former Figure 3 is The AnaCredit Regulation does not provide for any additional exemption for small
dropped and a reference to Table 3
reporting agents that are exempted from the obligation to report on a monthly basis,
is provided instead
other than in the general case. This means that, in spite of reporting only quarterly,
reporting agents are expected to report data for the quarter-end reporting reference
dates (31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December) in accordance with the
general requirements regarding the scope and quality of data and the transmission
timelines. Please refer to Table 3 for details regarding the reporting method,
frequency and timeliness per report and residency status.
An example of the obligation of a reporting agent exempted by the relevant NCB
from reporting on a monthly basis is provided in the box below.
Example 51: When to report – timeliness for small reporting agents exempted from
monthly reporting
A reporting agent is exempted by the relevant NCB from reporting on a monthly basis.
This example concerns the instrument dataset.
On 3 January 2019 a new instrument is issued by a resident observed agent whose
data is reported by the reporting agent. The instrument exists as of the end of January,
February and March, and also thereafter.
In line with the exemption from reporting data on a monthly basis, the instrument need
not be reported as of 31 January and 28 February, so the reporting agent is obliged to
report the instrument for the first time as of the end of March. The timeline for reporting
the instrument to AnaCredit is within 30 working days after 31 March 2019.
31/03/2019
10/05/2019
Reporting
03/01/2019 Reporting deadline
reference date
New instrument is issued 30 working days
and eligible for reporting after 31/03/2019
31/01/2019 28/02/2019
No data required No data required
to be reported to be reported
Please note that in addition to the instrument dataset, the reporting agent is also obliged
to submit the other datasets (timeliness: within 30 working days after 31 March 2019
apart from the accounting dataset for which a timeline of 15 working days of the
corresponding ITS remittance date applies).
Returning to the instrument dataset, a change in one data attribute is acknowledged by
the observed/reporting agent on 22 April 2019. This change relates to an instrument
already reported to AnaCredit.
Although the change is actually already in effect as of 30 April 2019, the reporting agent
is only required to update the data as of the end of June 2019 as this is the earliest
reporting reference date for which the reporting agent is required to report. The timeline
for reporting the change in the instrument dataset is within 30 working days after 30
June 2019.
30/06/2019
09/08/2019
Reporting
22/04/2019
Reporting deadline
reference date
Change in the instrument data 30 working days
(e.g. payment frequency) after 30/06/2019
30/04/2019 31/05/2019
No data required No data required
to be reported to be reported
Revision mark: this paragraph is With regard to the reporting of written-off instruments in the case of small reporting
adjusted in line with the
agents allowed to report on a quarterly instead of a monthly basis, it is clarified that
clarifications provided in Section
5.2.2 and Q&A 2017/0002
extended quarter-end reporting of instruments which incur a write-off implies that
such instruments are reported for one additional reporting reference date which is
the end of the quarter in which the write-off was incurred, while no data are reported
for the reporting reference dates which are not quarter-end dates but fall between
the date of the write-off and the end of the quarter (cf. Section 5.2.2 for more
information regarding the reporting of written-off instruments).
Revision mark: this example is Example 52 illustrates extended quarter-end reporting in the case of small reporting
updated in line with the
agents reporting on a quarterly instead of a monthly basis.
clarifications provided in Section
5.2.2 and Q&A 2017/0002
Example 52: Reference period for quarter-end reporting reference dates relevant
for small reporting agents reporting on a quarterly basis
This example looks at how to establish the reporting obligation concerning instruments
that incur a write-off in the case of small reporting agents reporting on a quarterly
instead of a monthly basis:
•
An instrument is fully written-off as of 15 September 2018. In this case, the
reporting agent still reports the instrument for reporting reference date 30
September 2018.
•
An instrument is fully written-off as of 22 October 2018. In this case, the reporting
agent still reports the instrument for reporting reference date 31 December 2018.
The reporting agent does not report the instrument as of 31 October 2018 or 30
November 2018.
For more information regarding the reporting of written-off instruments, please refer to
Section 5.2.2.2.1.
In accordance with Article 13(3), In accordance with Article 16(4), the relevant NCB will inform reporting agents in
reporting agents will be informed
good time about whether they have been exempted from reporting on a monthly
about their mandatory reporting
frequency in good time
basis for a fixed period of time. The relevant NCB will also inform reporting agents in
good time if they no longer fulfil the conditions for reduced reporting frequency in line
with Article 16(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation.
Glossary
Revision mark: the glossary is
expanded with additional
terms/acronyms
Term/acronym Description/definition
Agent: An observed agent is an institutional unit whose activity as
observed agent creditor or servicer is reported by the reporting agent. The
observed agent is either:
a) the institutional unit resident in the same country as the
reporting agent of which it forms part; or
b) a reporting agent’s foreign branch, resident in a
reporting Member State; or
c) a reporting agent’s foreign branch, non-resident in a
reporting Member State.
[Article 1(9) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Agent: A reporting agent is either a credit institution or a foreign branch
reporting agent of a credit institution that is resident in a reporting Member
State and that is subject to the ECBs reporting requirements
pursuant to the AnaCredit Regulation (Regulation (EU) No
2016/867).
[Article 1(8) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Branch: A branch office is an individual place of business which forms a
branch office legally dependent part of an institution and which carries out
directly all or some of the transactions inherent in the business
of the institution.
[Article 4(1)(17) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013]
Branch: A foreign branch is an institutional unit which is a legally
foreign branch dependent part of a legal entity resident in a different country to
that where the legal entity is incorporated in accordance with
the concept of a “single branch” referred to in Article 2(3) of
Regulation (EC) No 2533/98.
[Article 1(4) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Branch: A resident foreign branch of a credit institution is a foreign
resident foreign branch (see foreign branch above) operating within a reporting
branch of a Member State, of either a resident credit institution or a credit
credit institution resident outside of any reporting Member States.
institution
Branch: A single branch is any number of branch offices set up in the
single branch same country. See also institutional unit below.
[Article 2(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2533/98]
The commitment amount of an instrument is the sum of the
Commitment
data attributes “outstanding nominal amount” and “off-balance-
amount
sheet amount” of the instrument at a given date.
[Article 1(25) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
A debtor’s commitment amount is the sum of the commitment
Commitment
amount: amounts for all eligible instruments of the debtor in relation to
debtor’s the observed agent.
commitment
[Article 5(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
amount
A contract is a legally binding agreement between two or more
Contract
parties under which one or multiple instruments are created.
[Article 1(22) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Counterparty A counterparty is an institutional unit that is a party to an
instrument or has an affiliation with a party to an instrument.
[Article 1(10) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Credit A credit institution is as defined in Article 4(1)(1) of Regulation
institution (EU) No 575/2013, i.e. an undertaking the business of which is
to take deposits or other repayable funds from the public and to
grant credits for its own account.
[Article 1(10) of the AnaCredit Regulation and Article 4(1)(1) of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013]
Credit A credit institution that is resident in a reporting Member State.
institution:
resident credit
institution
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will fail to make any
Credit risk
payments that it is contractually obliged to make.
[Article 1(21) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
A creditor is the counterparty bearing the credit risk of an
Creditor
instrument, other than a protection provider, i.e. it has the right
to receive payments arising under the instrument from the
debtor (see debtor below)
[Article 1(11) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
A conceptual data model is a representation of the data
Data:
structures that are required by a database, focusing on which
conceptual data
data will be stored and how they are organised. Conceptual
model
data models provide information for both the end-users of the
information and the developers of the database, because they
allow the structure and requirements of a database to be known
and understood in a simple but complete way.
[Part I, Section 6.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
A data attribute is an individual characteristic relating to credit,
Data:
protection or counterparty which is collected and registered in a
data attribute
database.
[Part I, Section 6.2.2 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Data: Dynamic data are data that typically change or change
dynamic data relatively frequently.
[Part I, Section 6.3.2 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
An entity table is any of the distinct parts into which the data
Data:
entity table attributes to be reported to a database are grouped on the
basis of their nature. An entity table is divided in two or more
datasets when its data attributes are reported at different
frequencies or using different methodologies.
[Part I, Section 6.2 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
A foreign key is the combination of one or more identifiers in an
Data:
entity table that uniquely identifies a row of another entity table.
foreign key
[Part I, Section 6.2.2.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Data: An identifier is an identifying data attribute that, alone or in
combination with other identifiers, ensures that each record or
identifier
entry can be (uniquely) identified in an entity table. Identifiers
help to maintain data integrity and to identify relationships
between datasets.
[Part I, Section 6.2.2.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Data: A logical data model adds detail to a conceptual data model:
logical data
(a) including all necessary entity tables and
model
relationships between them;
(b) specifying the data attributes of each entity table;
(c) specifying a primary key for each entity table; and
(d) specifying the foreign keys necessary to identify the
relationship between different entity tables.
The logical data model also involves normalisation, which is the
process of removing redundancy in an entity table.
Normalisation typically occurs by dividing an entity table into
two or more parts and defining relationships between them. The
purpose of this is to replace many-to-many relationships in the
conceptual model with one-to-many relationships, which is
achieved by introducing bridging tables.
[Part I, Section 6.2 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Data: A primary key is the combination of one or more identifiers that
primary key uniquely identifies one occurrence (record) in an entity table.
[Part I, Section 6.2.2.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
A reportable dataset is a group of data attributes included in an
Data:
reportable entity table that are reported jointly to a database (i.e. with the
dataset same frequency and methodology of reporting).
[Part I, Section 2.3.2 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Static data are data that typically do not change or change
Data:
relatively infrequently.
static data
[Part I, Section 6.3.2 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Debtor A debtor is the counterparty which has the unconditional
obligation to make repayments arising under the instrument.
[Article 1(12) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
In line with the principle of reporting on an individual basis, the
Domestic part
(of a legal domestic part of a legal entity is an institutional unit which is a
entity) legally dependent part of the legal entity in the same country as
that where the legal entity is established. The domestic part (of
a legal entity) comprises the headquarters and branch offices
resident in the same country as the headquarters.
[Part I, Section 3.4.1.2 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
An FVC is a financial vehicle corporation engaged in
Financial
securitisation transactions, as defined in Article 1(1) and (2) of
vehicle
corporation Regulation (EU) No 1075/2013 (ECB/2013/40).
(FVC)
Granular reporting of credit to AnaCredit refers to the compilation
Granular
and reporting of data on the basis of individual instruments.
reporting of
In practice, the granular reporting of credit means that data is
credit
compiled at granular level, considering individual information
about each instrument, the protection securing it and the
related counterparties as well as about how the three are
interconnected with one another (see also: individual basis).
[Part I, Section 6.1.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
The headquarters is the place of business that serves as the
Headquarters
administrative centre of an enterprise. Its tasks include
overseeing and managing other units of the enterprise,
undertaking strategic or organisational planning and decision-
making, exercising operational control and managing the day-
to-day operations of the related units.
[Part I, Section 2.1.3.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
IFRS stands for International Financial Reporting Standards as
IFRS
applicable under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002.
Individual Reporting on an individual basis refers to reporting in respect of
basis: reporting a single institutional unit and covers all institutional units that
are part of a legal entity (see also: granular reporting of credit).
on an individual
This means that loans exchanged between institutional units of
basis
a legal entity are, in principle subject to reporting to AnaCredit.
[Article 1(26) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Institutional Institutional unit is as defined in paragraphs 2.12 and 2.13 of
unit Annex A to Regulation (EU) No 549/2013, i.e. it is an economic
entity characterised by decision-making autonomy in the
exercise of its principal function. A legal entity consists of one
or more institutional units, including the domestic part of the
legal entity and each of its foreign branches, if any.
[Article 1(3) of the AnaCredit Regulation and paragraphs 2.12
and 2.13 of Annex A to Regulation (EU) No 549/2013]
Instrument An instrument is any item specified in the data attribute “type of
instrument” as defined in Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation.
[Article 1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
An eligible instrument is an instrument that meets all of the
Instrument:
eligible following conditions on a month-end date:
instrument
• the instrument is one of the types of instrument under
Article 1(23) of the AnaCredit Regulation;
• the instrument satisfies any of the conditions of Article
4(1)(a)(i)-(iv) of the AnaCredit Regulation;
• at least one debtor of the instrument is a legal entity or part
of a legal entity as referred to in Article 1(5) of the
AnaCredit Regulation.
[Part I, Section 5.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Instrument: A fiduciary instrument is an instrument in relation to which a
fiduciary credit institution acts in its own name but on behalf of, and with
instrument the risk borne by, a third party. Fiduciary instruments are
usually operations in which a credit institution acts as an
intermediary between a financing body (generally a public
authority) and the beneficiary of the credit.
[Annex IV to the AnaCredit Regulation]
Instrument: A qualifying instrument is an eligible instrument at a month-end
qualifying date where the debtor’s commitment amount is equal to or
instrument exceeds €25,000 or the equivalent foreign currency amount (cf.
Article 5 of the AnaCredit Regulation).
[Part I, Section 5.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Intracompany Intracompany loans are instruments exchanged between
loans different institutional units of the same legal entity – i.e.
between the domestic part and a foreign branch of a legal entity
or between two foreign branches of the same legal entity.
[Part I, Section 4.6.5.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
A legal entity is any entity which, under the national law to
Legal entity
which it is subject, can acquire legal rights and obligations.
[Article 1(5) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
A legal entity identifier (LEI) is an alphanumeric reference code in
Legal entity
line with the ISO 17442 standard (4) assigned to a legal entity.
identifier (LEI)
[Article 1(6) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Month-end Month-end is the last calendar day of a month, i.e. 31 January,
28 February (or 29 February in leap years), 31 March, 30 April,
31 May, 30 June, 31 July, 31 August, 30 September, 31
October, 30 November or 31 December.
[Part I, Section 5.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
NACE (from the French “nomenclature statistique des activités
NACE
économiques dans la Communauté européenne”) is a common
statistical classification of economic activities in the European
Community (the current version is NACE Rev. 2). NACE
ensures that Community classifications are relevant to the
economic reality and enhances the comparability of national,
Community and international classifications and, hence, of
national, Community and international statistics.
[Article 1(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006]
National central National central bank (NCB) refers to the national central banks
bank (NCB) of Member States of the European Union.
[Article 1(15) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
An originator is the counterparty in a securitisation transaction
Originator
as defined in Article 1(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1075/2013
(ECB/2013/40); i.e. an originator is the transferor of an
instrument or pool of instruments, and/or of the credit risk of the
instrument or pool of instruments to the securitisation structure.
[Annex IV to the AnaCredit Regulation and Article 1(3) of
Regulation (EU) No 1075/2013 (ECB/2013/40)]
Protection is an assurance or coverage against a negative credit
Protection
event, by means of any item listed in the data attribute “type of
protection” as defined in Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation.
[Article 1(24) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Protection A protection provider is the counterparty that grants protection
against a contractually agreed negative credit event and that
provider
bears the credit risk of the negative credit event.
[Article 1(13) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Quarter-end Quarter-end is the last calendar day of a quarter of a year, i.e.
31 March, 30 June, 30 September or 31 December.
[Part I, Section 5.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Reference The reference population is the set of all observed agents
population whose credit data are reported to AnaCredit, i.e. all observed
agents are jointly referred as the reference population.
[Part I, Sections 2.2.1 and 2.2.3 of the AnaCredit Reporting
Manual]
Reporting A reporting Member State is an EU Member State whose
Member State currency is the euro. A Member State whose currency is not the
euro may also decide to become a reporting Member State by
incorporating the provisions of the AnaCredit Regulation into
their national law or otherwise imposing relevant reporting
requirements in accordance with their national law; this may
include, in particular, Member States that participate in the SSM
via close cooperation in accordance with Article 7 of Council
Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013.
[Article 1(1) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
The reporting population is the set of reporting agents which
Reporting
population are obliged to report according to the AnaCredit Regulation.
Reporting agents report credit data on an individual basis in
accordance with Articles 4 and 6 of the AnaCredit Regulation.
The actual reporting population consists of resident credit
institutions and resident foreign branches of credit institutions,
regardless of whether or not they are institutions supervised
under Directive 2013/36/EU.
[Article 3(1) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Reporting The reporting reference date is the last day of the month to
reference date which the data relate.
[Part I, Section 5.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
The reporting reference period (for a given reporting reference
Reporting
date) is the period that starts on the last reporting reference
reference
date of the quarter preceding the reporting reference date and
period
ends on the reporting reference date.
[Article 4(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Resident is as defined in Article 1(4) of Regulation (EC) No
Resident
2533/98; i.e. resident and residing mean having a centre of
economic interest in the economic territory of a country as
described in Annex A of Regulation (EC) No 2533/98.
[Article 1(2) of the AnaCredit Regulation and Article 1(4) of
Regulation (EC) No 2533/98]
Servicer A servicer is the counterparty responsible for the administrative
and financial management of an instrument.
[Article 1(14) of the AnaCredit Regulation]
Special fund A special fund is an unincorporated investment fund comprising
investment portfolios owned by the group of participants, and
whose management is undertaken, in general, by other
financial corporations. Such funds are institutional units,
separate from the managing financial corporation.
[Part I, Section 3.4.1.3.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Sub-fund A sub-fund is a segregated part of an investment fund whose
shares/units are independently backed by different assets.
Each sub-fund of a special fund is considered as independent
investment fund in accordance with Article 4.2 of Regulation
(EU) No 1075/2013.
[Part I, Section 3.4.1.3.1 of the AnaCredit Reporting Manual]
Undertaking: A head office undertaking is the domestic part of the legal entity
head office of which the foreign branch is a legally dependent part.
undertaking
[Annex IV to the AnaCredit Regulation]
Undertaking: An immediate parent undertaking is (the domestic part of) a
immediate legal entity which is the immediate parent undertaking of the
parent legal entity of which the counterparty forms part.
undertaking
[Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation]
An ultimate parent undertaking is (the domestic part of) the
Undertaking:
ultimate parent legal entity which is the ultimate parent undertaking of the legal
undertaking entity of which the counterparty forms part. This ultimate parent
undertaking has no parent undertaking.
[Annex IV of the AnaCredit Regulation]
References to legal acts
Regulation / Official title
Directive /
Guideline No
Regulation (EU) 2016/867 of the European Central Bank of
(EU) 2016/867
18 May 2016 on the collection of granular credit and credit
(ECB/2016/13)
risk data (ECB/2016/13)
(EU) 2017/2335 Guideline (EU) 2017/2335 of the European Central Bank of
(ECB/2017/38) 23 November 2017 on the procedures for the collection of
granular credit and credit risk data (ECB/2017/38)
(EU) 2018/876 Guideline (EU) 2018/876 of the European Central Bank of
(ECB/2018/16) 1 June 2018 on the Register of Institutions and Affiliates
Data (ECB/2018/16)
Guideline of the European Central Bank of 4 April 2014 on
(EU) 2014/810
monetary and financial statistics (recast) (ECB/2014/15)
(ECB/2014/15)
(2014/810/EU)
(EU) No Regulation (EU) No 1071/2013 of the European Central
Bank of 24 September 2013 concerning the balance sheet
1071/2013
of the monetary financial institutions sector (recast)
(ECB/2013/33)
(ECB/2013/33)
(EU) No Regulation (EU) No 549/2013 of the European Parliament
549/2013 of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the European system of
national and regional accounts in the European Union
(EU) No Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament
575/2013 of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements
for credit institutions and investment firms and amending
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012
Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament of the
2013/36/EU
Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit
institutions and the prudential supervision of credit
institutions and investment firms, amending Directive
2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and
2006/49/EC
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014 of
(EU) No
16 April 2014 laying down implementing technical
680/2014
standards with regard to supervisory reporting of
institutions according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of
the European Parliament and of the Council (as amended
by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
2017/1443 of 29 June 2017)
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament
(EU) No
of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central
648/2012
counterparties and trade repositories
Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998
(EC) No 2533/98
concerning the collection of statistical information by the
European Central Bank
(EU) No Regulation (EU) No 1075/2013 of the European Central
Bank of 18 October 2013 concerning statistics on the
1075/2013
assets and liabilities of financial vehicle corporations
(ECB/2013/40)
engaged in securitisation transactions (recast)
(ECB/2013/40)
(EC) No Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament
1893/2006 and of the Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the
statistical classification of economic activities NACE
Revision 2 and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No
3037/90 as well as certain EC Regulations on specific
statistical domains
(EU) No Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of 15 October 2013
1024/2013 conferring specific tasks on the European Central Bank
concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of
credit institutions
© European Central Bank, 2019
Postal address 60640 Frankfurt am Main, Germany
+49 69 1344 0
Telephone
Website www.ecb.europa.eu
All rights reserved. Any reproduction, publication and reprint in the form of a different publication, whether printed or produced electronically, in whole or in
part, is permitted only with the explicit written authorisation of the ECB or the authors.
ISBN 978-92-899-3839-6 (pdf)
DOI 10.2866/307029 (pdf)
QB-01-19-497-EN-N (pdf)
EU catalogue No
